2014/10.md, before:

# OCTOBER 2014

## 25/sat
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epigenetics
- VIDEO : [X-Inactivation and Epigenetics](http://www.wehi.edu.au/x_inactivation_and_epigenetics/), Uno E and Berry D. (2012), Walter and Eliza Hall Institute.

## 24/fri
- PAPER: [The demoiselle of X-inactivation: 50 years old and as trendy and mesmerising as ever](http://www.plosgenetics.org/article/info:doi/10.1371/journal.pgen.1002212), Morey C, Avner P. (2011). PLoS Genet 7(7):e1002212.

## 23/thu
- PAPER : [Combinatorial complexity in chromatin structure and function: revisiting the histone code](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3345062/) by Rando OJ. (2012). 

## 22/wed
- PAPER: [New insights into nucleosome and chromatin structure: an ordered state or a disordered affair?](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3408961/), Karolin Luger, Mekonnen L. Dechassa, and David J. Tremethick, Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 13(7):436-47, Published online Jun 22, 2012. doi: 10.1038/nrm3382.

## 21/tue
- VIDEO : [Epigenetics and the influence of our genes](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JTBg6hqeuTg) by Dr. Courtney Griffins, 23/Feb/2013.
- GAMES : [Gene Control game to learn Genetics](http://learn.genetics.utah.edu/content/epigenetics/control/), Genetic Science Learning Center, University of Utah.

## 20/mon
- PAPER: [On emerging nuclear order](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3051810/), by I.Rajapakse and M.Groudine, 2011. J Cell Biol 192(5):711-21.

## 19/sun
- [From One Genome, Many Types of Cells. But How?](http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/24/science/24chromatin.html?_r=4&ref=science&pagewanted=all) by Wade N., on 23Feb2009 in the New York Times.
- PAPER: [Molecular mechanisms of long noncoding RNAs](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3199020/). Mol Cell 43(6):904-14, KC.Wang, HY.Chang ,2011.

## 18/sat 
- [Start codon](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Start_codon) :: The first codon of a messenger RNA (mRNA) transcript translated by a ribosome.
- [5' prime untranslated region](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_prime_untranslated_region)

## 17/fri
- [5′-end and a 3′-end](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directionality_%28molecular_biology%29)
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Upstream_and_downstream_%28DNA%29

## 16/thu
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RNA_polymerase
- PAPER : [Screening the human exome: a comparison of whole genome and whole transcriptome sequencing](http://www.biomedcentral.com/content/pdf/gb-2010-11-5-r57.pdf), Elizabeth T Cirulli, Abanish Singh, Kevin V Shianna, Dongliang Ge, Jason P Smith, Jessica M Maia, Erin L Heinzen, James J Goedert, David B Goldstein for the Center for HIV/AIDS Vaccine Immunology (CHAVI).
- Next generation sequencing services: http://www.biotech.cornell.edu/brc/genomics-facility/services/next-generation-sequencing

## 15/wed
- **[Tag]FindPaper** :: [New Study Finds That Neurons Actively Fine Tune Themselves at the Genetic Level](http://neurosciencenews.com/mrna-ion-channels-cluster-neurons-1434/). 
- SNPs and their short flanking sequences for Drosophila melanogaster putative thrombospondin mRNA →  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/AF305875.1 

## 14/tue
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical_genetics
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Molecular_genetics#Techniques_in_molecular_genetics
   
## 13/mon
- Precursor mRNA : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Precursor_mRNA
- Whole genome sequencing : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whole_genome_sequencing

## 12/sun
- Exome sequencing : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exome_sequencing
- Intron : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intron
- Exon : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exon
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Molecular_biology
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Biochemistry 
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Genetics

## 11/sat
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNA
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RNA
- mRNA : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Messenger_RNA

## 09/thu
- http://genome.cshlp.org/content/13/1/1.full

## 06/mon
- VIDEO : [Genetics, Epigenetics and Disease](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SHpfkNRscOc&feature=endscreen) by Professor Adrian Bird, CBE FMedSci FRS, on Tuesday 22 January 2013, Royal Society GlaxoSmithKline Prize Lecture.

## 04/sat
- [Transcriptome Analysis and Screening for Potential Target Genes for RNAi-Mediated Pest Control of the Beet Armyworm, Spodoptera exigua](http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0065931), Hang Li, Weihua Jiang, Zan Zhang, Yanru Xing, Fei Li, Published: June 18, 2013; DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0065931

## 02/thu
- http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3426205/

## 01/wed
- http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi?CMD=Web&PAGE_TYPE=BlastDocs&DOC_TYPE=ProgSelectionGuide

Commit message:

Rsx is a metatherian RNA paper

2014/10.md, after:

# OCTOBER 2014

## 27/mon
- PAPER: [Rsx is a metatherian RNA with Xist-like properties in X-chromosome inactivation](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3484893/), Grant J et al. (2012). Nature 487(7406):254-8.

## 25/sat
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epigenetics
- VIDEO : [X-Inactivation and Epigenetics](http://www.wehi.edu.au/x_inactivation_and_epigenetics/), Uno E and Berry D. (2012), Walter and Eliza Hall Institute.

## 24/fri
- PAPER: [The demoiselle of X-inactivation: 50 years old and as trendy and mesmerising as ever](http://www.plosgenetics.org/article/info:doi/10.1371/journal.pgen.1002212), Morey C, Avner P. (2011). PLoS Genet 7(7):e1002212.

## 23/thu
- PAPER : [Combinatorial complexity in chromatin structure and function: revisiting the histone code](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3345062/) by Rando OJ. (2012). 

## 22/wed
- PAPER: [New insights into nucleosome and chromatin structure: an ordered state or a disordered affair?](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3408961/), Karolin Luger, Mekonnen L. Dechassa, and David J. Tremethick, Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 13(7):436-47, Published online Jun 22, 2012. doi: 10.1038/nrm3382.

## 21/tue
- VIDEO : [Epigenetics and the influence of our genes](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JTBg6hqeuTg) by Dr. Courtney Griffins, 23/Feb/2013.
- GAMES : [Gene Control game to learn Genetics](http://learn.genetics.utah.edu/content/epigenetics/control/), Genetic Science Learning Center, University of Utah.

## 20/mon
- PAPER: [On emerging nuclear order](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3051810/), by I.Rajapakse and M.Groudine, 2011. J Cell Biol 192(5):711-21.

## 19/sun
- [From One Genome, Many Types of Cells. But How?](http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/24/science/24chromatin.html?_r=4&ref=science&pagewanted=all) by Wade N., on 23Feb2009 in the New York Times.
- PAPER: [Molecular mechanisms of long noncoding RNAs](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3199020/). Mol Cell 43(6):904-14, KC.Wang, HY.Chang ,2011.

## 18/sat 
- [Start codon](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Start_codon) :: The first codon of a messenger RNA (mRNA) transcript translated by a ribosome.
- [5' prime untranslated region](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_prime_untranslated_region)

## 17/fri
- [5′-end and a 3′-end](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directionality_%28molecular_biology%29)
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Upstream_and_downstream_%28DNA%29

## 16/thu
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RNA_polymerase
- PAPER : [Screening the human exome: a comparison of whole genome and whole transcriptome sequencing](http://www.biomedcentral.com/content/pdf/gb-2010-11-5-r57.pdf), Elizabeth T Cirulli, Abanish Singh, Kevin V Shianna, Dongliang Ge, Jason P Smith, Jessica M Maia, Erin L Heinzen, James J Goedert, David B Goldstein for the Center for HIV/AIDS Vaccine Immunology (CHAVI).
- Next generation sequencing services: http://www.biotech.cornell.edu/brc/genomics-facility/services/next-generation-sequencing

## 15/wed
- **[Tag]FindPaper** :: [New Study Finds That Neurons Actively Fine Tune Themselves at the Genetic Level](http://neurosciencenews.com/mrna-ion-channels-cluster-neurons-1434/). 
- SNPs and their short flanking sequences for Drosophila melanogaster putative thrombospondin mRNA →  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/AF305875.1 

## 14/tue
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical_genetics
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Molecular_genetics#Techniques_in_molecular_genetics
   
## 13/mon
- Precursor mRNA : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Precursor_mRNA
- Whole genome sequencing : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whole_genome_sequencing

## 12/sun
- Exome sequencing : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exome_sequencing
- Intron : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intron
- Exon : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exon
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Molecular_biology
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Biochemistry 
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Genetics

## 11/sat
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNA
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RNA
- mRNA : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Messenger_RNA

## 09/thu
- http://genome.cshlp.org/content/13/1/1.full

## 06/mon
- VIDEO : [Genetics, Epigenetics and Disease](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SHpfkNRscOc&feature=endscreen) by Professor Adrian Bird, CBE FMedSci FRS, on Tuesday 22 January 2013, Royal Society GlaxoSmithKline Prize Lecture.

## 04/sat
- [Transcriptome Analysis and Screening for Potential Target Genes for RNAi-Mediated Pest Control of the Beet Armyworm, Spodoptera exigua](http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0065931), Hang Li, Weihua Jiang, Zan Zhang, Yanru Xing, Fei Li, Published: June 18, 2013; DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0065931

## 02/thu
- http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3426205/

## 01/wed
- http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi?CMD=Web&PAGE_TYPE=BlastDocs&DOC_TYPE=ProgSelectionGuide
