ai-ml.md, before:

+ [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
    + [Regression](#regression)
+ [Statistical Modelling](#statistical-modelling)
+ [Unsupervised Learning](#unsupervised-learning)
+ [Reinforcement Learning](#reinforcement-learning)

----

# [Machine Learning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning)
+ An Introduction to Machine Learning in Julia: http://juliacomputing.com/blog/2016/09/28/knn-char-recognition.html
+ Java code: http://aispace.org/dTree/
+ {Paper} : [Evaluation of Deep Learning Frameworks](https://github.com/zer0n/deepframeworks).
+ Setting up a [Deep Learning Machine from Scratch for Kubuntu](https://github.com/saiprashanths/dl-setup).
+ Julia Libraries, https://github.com/svaksha/Julia.jl/blob/master/AI.md#machine-learning
+ Python libraries, https://github.com/svaksha/pythonidae/blob/master/AI.md#machine-learning
+ https://github.com/hangtwenty/dive-into-machine-learning
+ https://www.udacity.com/podcasts/linear-digressions
+ https://soundcloud.com/oreilly-radar/sets/the-oreilly-data-show-podcast (feed here)
+ http://www.thetalkingmachines.com/ways-to-listen
+ http://www.partiallyderivative.com/
+ http://mathworld.wolfram.com/MaximumLikelihood.html

##### NEWS
+ http://gael-varoquaux.info/programming/mloss-2015-wising-up-to-building-open-source-machine-learning.html
+ http://techcrunch.com/2016/04/02/how-to-approach-machine-learning-as-a-non-technical-person/

## [Artificial Neural Network](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_neural_network)
### [Deep Learning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_learning)
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_deep_learning_software
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stochastic_gradient_descent
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Long_short-term_memory
    + Paper: http://bioinformatics.oxfordjournals.org/content/23/14/1728.full.pdf+html
    + http://deeplearning.cs.cmu.edu/pdfs/Hochreiter97_lstm.pdf
+ http://colah.github.io/posts/2015-08-Understanding-LSTMs/
+ http://deeplearning.net/tutorial/lstm.html
+ https://scholar.google.de/scholar?q=compositional+knowledge+based+application&hl=en&as_sdt=0&as_vis=1&oi=scholart&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwigqrC7qfDMAhWGXSwKHZ2bAQoQgQMIMjAA

## Papers
+ http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P15-1016
+ 2015, [Grammar as a Foreign Language](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/5635-grammar-as-a-foreign-language.pdf).
+ https://github.com/tensorflow/models/tree/master/syntaxnet
    + https://spacy.io/blog/syntaxnet-in-context
    + http://googleresearch.blogspot.de/2016/05/announcing-syntaxnet-worlds-most.html
+ http://swami.wustl.edu/epoxidation-paper

## Books
+ Mitchell: http://personal.disco.unimib.it/Vanneschi/McGrawHill_-_Machine_Learning_-Tom_Mitchell.pdf
    + Tom Mitchell book on ML: http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~tom/mlbook-chapter-slides.html
+ __Deep Learning__ : http://www.deeplearningbook.org/
__Information Science and Statistics__
+ Bishop: Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer.
  + http://users.isr.ist.utl.pt/~wurmd/Livros/school/Bishop%20-%20Pattern%20Recognition%20And%20Machine%20Learning%20-%20Springer%20%202006.pdf
  + http://www.rmki.kfki.hu/~banmi/elte/Bishop%20-%20Pattern%20Recognition%20and%20Machine%20Learning.pdf
+ Akaike and Kitagawa: The Practice of Time Series Analysis. 
+ Cowell, Dawid, Lauritzen, and Spiegelhalter: Probabilistic Networks and Expert Systems. 
+ Doucet, de Freitas, and Gordon: Sequential Monte Carlo Methods in Practice. 
+ Fine: Feedforward Neural Network Methodology. 
+ Hawkins and Olwell: Cumulative Sum Charts and Charting for Quality Improvement. 
+ Jensen: Bayesian Networks and Decision Graphs. 
+ Marchette: Computer Intrusion Detection and Network Monitoring:A Statistical Viewpoint. 
+ Rubinstein and Kroese: The Cross-Entropy Method:  A Unified Approach to Combinatorial Optimization, Monte Carlo Simulation, and Machine Learning. 
+ Studený: Probabilistic Conditional Independence Structures.
+ Vapnik: The Nature of Statistical Learning Theory, Second Edition.  
+ Wallace: Statistical and Inductive Inference by Minimum Massage Length.

## Concept learning
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concept_learning

## Gaussian
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arithmetic%E2%80%93geometric_mean

## Regression
+ [Many Regression Algorithms, One Unifed Model](http://www.freekstulp.net/publications/pdfs/stulp15many.pdf)
+ http://www.freekstulp.net/publications/
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_regression
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regression_analysis
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Correlation_does_not_imply_causation

## Probability
+ http://mathworld.wolfram.com/MaximumLikelihood.html
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monty_Hall_problem
+ 

### [Cramer Rao](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cram%C3%A9r%E2%80%93Rao_bound) Bounds
+ http://willett.ece.wisc.edu/wp-uploads/2016/01/16-CRLB.pdf
+ CHAPTER 2. Cramer-Rao lower bound: http//www.cs.tut.fi/~hehu/SSP/lecture2.pdf
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cram%C3%A9r%E2%80%93Rao_bound

### Bayes theorem
+ http://faculty.washington.edu/tamre/BayesTheorem.pdf


----

# Statistical Modelling
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predictive_modelling

----

# Unsupervised Learning
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linde%E2%80%93Buzo%E2%80%93Gray_algorithm
+ http://www.data-compression.com/vq.shtml#animation
+ http://www.data-compression.com/vqanim.shtml

## [k-means](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K-means_clustering)
+ 

## Gaussian Mixtures
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mixture_model#Gaussian_mixture_model

## PAPERS
+ [Task-level ImitationLearning using Variance-based Movement Optimization](https://www.tu-ilmenau.de/fileadmin/media/neurob/publications/conferences_int/2009/Muehlig-ICRA-2009.pdf)

----
 
# Reinforcement Learning
+ http://karpathy.github.io/2016/05/31/rl/

Commit message:

The 10 Algorithms Machine Learning Engineers Need to Know

ai-ml.md, after:

+ [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
    + [Regression](#regression)
+ [Statistical Modelling](#statistical-modelling)
+ [Unsupervised Learning](#unsupervised-learning)
+ [Reinforcement Learning](#reinforcement-learning)

----

# [Machine Learning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning)
+ The 10 Algorithms Machine Learning Engineers Need to Know, https://gab41.lab41.org/the-10-algorithms-machine-learning-engineers-need-to-know-f4bb63f5b2fa#.fcs1pf3la
+ An Introduction to Machine Learning in Julia: http://juliacomputing.com/blog/2016/09/28/knn-char-recognition.html
+ Java code: http://aispace.org/dTree/
+ {Paper} : [Evaluation of Deep Learning Frameworks](https://github.com/zer0n/deepframeworks).
+ Setting up a [Deep Learning Machine from Scratch for Kubuntu](https://github.com/saiprashanths/dl-setup).
+ Julia Libraries, https://github.com/svaksha/Julia.jl/blob/master/AI.md#machine-learning
+ Python libraries, https://github.com/svaksha/pythonidae/blob/master/AI.md#machine-learning
+ https://github.com/hangtwenty/dive-into-machine-learning
+ https://www.udacity.com/podcasts/linear-digressions
+ https://soundcloud.com/oreilly-radar/sets/the-oreilly-data-show-podcast (feed here)
+ http://www.thetalkingmachines.com/ways-to-listen
+ http://www.partiallyderivative.com/
+ http://mathworld.wolfram.com/MaximumLikelihood.html

##### NEWS
+ http://gael-varoquaux.info/programming/mloss-2015-wising-up-to-building-open-source-machine-learning.html
+ http://techcrunch.com/2016/04/02/how-to-approach-machine-learning-as-a-non-technical-person/

## [Artificial Neural Network](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_neural_network)
### [Deep Learning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_learning)
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_deep_learning_software
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stochastic_gradient_descent
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Long_short-term_memory
    + Paper: http://bioinformatics.oxfordjournals.org/content/23/14/1728.full.pdf+html
    + http://deeplearning.cs.cmu.edu/pdfs/Hochreiter97_lstm.pdf
+ http://colah.github.io/posts/2015-08-Understanding-LSTMs/
+ http://deeplearning.net/tutorial/lstm.html
+ https://scholar.google.de/scholar?q=compositional+knowledge+based+application&hl=en&as_sdt=0&as_vis=1&oi=scholart&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwigqrC7qfDMAhWGXSwKHZ2bAQoQgQMIMjAA

## Papers
+ http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P15-1016
+ 2015, [Grammar as a Foreign Language](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/5635-grammar-as-a-foreign-language.pdf).
+ https://github.com/tensorflow/models/tree/master/syntaxnet
    + https://spacy.io/blog/syntaxnet-in-context
    + http://googleresearch.blogspot.de/2016/05/announcing-syntaxnet-worlds-most.html
+ http://swami.wustl.edu/epoxidation-paper

## Books
+ Mitchell: http://personal.disco.unimib.it/Vanneschi/McGrawHill_-_Machine_Learning_-Tom_Mitchell.pdf
    + Tom Mitchell book on ML: http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~tom/mlbook-chapter-slides.html
+ __Deep Learning__ : http://www.deeplearningbook.org/
__Information Science and Statistics__
+ Bishop: Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer.
  + http://users.isr.ist.utl.pt/~wurmd/Livros/school/Bishop%20-%20Pattern%20Recognition%20And%20Machine%20Learning%20-%20Springer%20%202006.pdf
  + http://www.rmki.kfki.hu/~banmi/elte/Bishop%20-%20Pattern%20Recognition%20and%20Machine%20Learning.pdf
+ Akaike and Kitagawa: The Practice of Time Series Analysis. 
+ Cowell, Dawid, Lauritzen, and Spiegelhalter: Probabilistic Networks and Expert Systems. 
+ Doucet, de Freitas, and Gordon: Sequential Monte Carlo Methods in Practice. 
+ Fine: Feedforward Neural Network Methodology. 
+ Hawkins and Olwell: Cumulative Sum Charts and Charting for Quality Improvement. 
+ Jensen: Bayesian Networks and Decision Graphs. 
+ Marchette: Computer Intrusion Detection and Network Monitoring:A Statistical Viewpoint. 
+ Rubinstein and Kroese: The Cross-Entropy Method:  A Unified Approach to Combinatorial Optimization, Monte Carlo Simulation, and Machine Learning. 
+ Studený: Probabilistic Conditional Independence Structures.
+ Vapnik: The Nature of Statistical Learning Theory, Second Edition.  
+ Wallace: Statistical and Inductive Inference by Minimum Massage Length.

## Concept learning
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concept_learning

## Gaussian
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arithmetic%E2%80%93geometric_mean

## Regression
+ [Many Regression Algorithms, One Unifed Model](http://www.freekstulp.net/publications/pdfs/stulp15many.pdf)
+ http://www.freekstulp.net/publications/
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_regression
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regression_analysis
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Correlation_does_not_imply_causation

## Probability
+ http://mathworld.wolfram.com/MaximumLikelihood.html
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monty_Hall_problem
+ 

### [Cramer Rao](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cram%C3%A9r%E2%80%93Rao_bound) Bounds
+ http://willett.ece.wisc.edu/wp-uploads/2016/01/16-CRLB.pdf
+ CHAPTER 2. Cramer-Rao lower bound: http//www.cs.tut.fi/~hehu/SSP/lecture2.pdf
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cram%C3%A9r%E2%80%93Rao_bound

### Bayes theorem
+ http://faculty.washington.edu/tamre/BayesTheorem.pdf


----

# Statistical Modelling
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predictive_modelling

----

# Unsupervised Learning
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linde%E2%80%93Buzo%E2%80%93Gray_algorithm
+ http://www.data-compression.com/vq.shtml#animation
+ http://www.data-compression.com/vqanim.shtml

## [k-means](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K-means_clustering)
+ 

## Gaussian Mixtures
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mixture_model#Gaussian_mixture_model

## PAPERS
+ [Task-level ImitationLearning using Variance-based Movement Optimization](https://www.tu-ilmenau.de/fileadmin/media/neurob/publications/conferences_int/2009/Muehlig-ICRA-2009.pdf)

----
 
# Reinforcement Learning
+ http://karpathy.github.io/2016/05/31/rl/
