ai.md, before:

+ [BOOKS](#books)
+ [AI](#ai)
+ [Computational Formalisms](#computational-formalisms)
+ [Data Structures](#data-structures)
+ [Graphs](#graphs)
+ [HMM](#hmm)
+ [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
+ [Machine Translation](#machine-translation)
+ [NLP](#nlp)
+ [Statistical Modelling](#statistical-modelling)

----

# BOOKS
+ The book "biological sequence analysis" by Durbin and Eddy.

----

# AI
* https://wtvox.com/robotics/google-is-working-on-a-new-algorithm-thought-vectors/

----

# Computational Formalisms
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Satisfiability_modulo_theories
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Computational_problems
+ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Computational_science

----

# Data Structures
+ Algorithms, Part I :: https://www.coursera.org/course/algs4partI
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_structure

### Books
+ The Algorithm Design Manual, Steven.S.Skiena - An excellent reference to algorithm design and many common data types. 
+ "The Art of Computer Programming", Donald Knuth.

----

# Graphs
+ [Hierarchical Scheduling of DAG Structured Computations on Manycore Processors with Dynamic Thread Grouping](http://www.cs.huji.ac.il/~feit/parsched/jsspp10/p9-xia.pdf), Yinglong Xia, et al.
+ [Querying Graph Patterns](http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/libkin/papers/pods11b.pdf)
+ [Patterns in graphs](https://mathman.biz/html/patgraph.html)

----

# [HMM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hidden_Markov_model)
+ http://www.ece.ucsb.edu/Faculty/Rabiner/ece259/Reprints/tutorial%20on%20hmm%20and%20applications.pdf
+ Computational biology, http://www.rosalind.info

----

# Machine Learning
+ {Paper} : [Evaluation of Deep Learning Frameworks](https://github.com/zer0n/deepframeworks).
+ Julia Libraries, https://github.com/svaksha/Julia.jl/blob/master/AI.md#machine-learning
+ Python libraries, https://github.com/svaksha/pythonidae/blob/master/AI.md#machine-learning
+ https://github.com/hangtwenty/dive-into-machine-learning
+ https://www.udacity.com/podcasts/linear-digressions
+ https://soundcloud.com/oreilly-radar/sets/the-oreilly-data-show-podcast (feed here)
+ http://www.thetalkingmachines.com/ways-to-listen
+ http://www.partiallyderivative.com/
+ http://mathworld.wolfram.com/MaximumLikelihood.html

## Books
Information Science and Statistics 
+ Bishop: Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer.
  + http://users.isr.ist.utl.pt/~wurmd/Livros/school/Bishop%20-%20Pattern%20Recognition%20And%20Machine%20Learning%20-%20Springer%20%202006.pdf
  + http://www.rmki.kfki.hu/~banmi/elte/Bishop%20-%20Pattern%20Recognition%20and%20Machine%20Learning.pdf
+ Akaike and Kitagawa: The Practice of Time Series Analysis. 
+ Cowell, Dawid, Lauritzen, and Spiegelhalter: Probabilistic Networks and Expert Systems. 
+ Doucet, de Freitas, and Gordon: Sequential Monte Carlo Methods in Practice. 
+ Fine: Feedforward Neural Network Methodology. 
+ Hawkins and Olwell: Cumulative Sum Charts and Charting for Quality Improvement. 
+ Jensen: Bayesian Networks and Decision Graphs. 
+ Marchette: Computer Intrusion Detection and Network Monitoring:A Statistical Viewpoint. 
+ Rubinstein and Kroese: The Cross-Entropy Method:  A Unified Approach to Combinatorial Optimization, Monte Carlo Simulation, and Machine Learning. 
+ Studený: Probabilistic Conditional Independence Structures.
+ Vapnik: The Nature of Statistical Learning Theory, Second Edition.  
+ Wallace: Statistical and Inductive Inference by Minimum Massage Length.

## Probability
+ http://mathworld.wolfram.com/MaximumLikelihood.html
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monty_Hall_problem
+ 

### [Cramer Rao](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cram%C3%A9r%E2%80%93Rao_bound) Bounds
+ http://willett.ece.wisc.edu/wp-uploads/2016/01/16-CRLB.pdf
+ CHAPTER 2. Cramer-Rao lower bound: http//www.cs.tut.fi/~hehu/SSP/lecture2.pdf
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cram%C3%A9r%E2%80%93Rao_bound

----

# Machine Translation
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistical_machine_translation
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apertium
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anusaaraka
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenLogos, http://logos-os.dfki.de/#mozTocId415559

----

# NLP

## Sentiment Analysis
+ Front End Resources: Ajax Hacks : http://webmasters.stackexchange.com/questions/22338/why-not-ajaxify-entire-websites
+ Back End Resources:
+ http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/reference/river/
+ https://dev.twitter.com/programs/twitter-certified-products/products

### NLTK
* NLTK trainer, https://bitbucket.org/japerk/nltk-trainer/src
* https://github.com/marcua/tweeql/
* http://streamhacker.com/2010/10/25/training-binary-text-classifiers-nltk-trainer/
* http://www.laurentluce.com/posts/twitter-sentiment-analysis-using-python-and-nltk/

###### Resources: Books
+ A topic modeling paper is Latent Dirichlet Allocation by Blei.
+ https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/introduction-algorithms
+ http://www.amazon.com/The-Art-Computer-Programming-Vol/dp/0201896834
+ G. Bordogna, M. Pagani, and G. Pasi, Soft Computing for Information Retrieval on the Web. Springer Verlag, 2006.
+ Indurkhya, N., and Damerau, F. Handbook Of Natural Language Processing, 2nd Edition CRC 2010
+ Sebastiani, (2002) Machine learning in automated text categorization, ACM Computing Surveys, 34 (1), 1-47.
+ On The Use of Fuzzy Rules to Text Document Classification: Tatiane M. Nogueira, Solange O. Rezende, Heloisa A. Camargo
+ A fuzzy approach to classifying text documents, Liu , Song.
+ http://www.nltk.org/book/ch06.html

### Software
+ http://spaceandtim.es/opennews/broca
+ https://github.com/ftzeng/broca
+ Automated Job Description Text analyzers : 
   + [Textio](https://textio.com/)
   + [Joblint](http://joblint.org/) and the [source code](https://github.com/rowanmanning/joblint).

----

# Statistical Modelling
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predictive_modelling

Commit message:

Deep Learning Machine from Scratch for Kubuntu

ai.md, after:

+ [BOOKS](#books)
+ [AI](#ai)
+ [Computational Formalisms](#computational-formalisms)
+ [Data Structures](#data-structures)
+ [Graphs](#graphs)
+ [HMM](#hmm)
+ [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
+ [Machine Translation](#machine-translation)
+ [NLP](#nlp)
+ [Statistical Modelling](#statistical-modelling)

----

# BOOKS
+ The book "biological sequence analysis" by Durbin and Eddy.

----

# AI
* https://wtvox.com/robotics/google-is-working-on-a-new-algorithm-thought-vectors/

----

# Computational Formalisms
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Satisfiability_modulo_theories
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Computational_problems
+ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Computational_science

----

# Data Structures
+ Algorithms, Part I :: https://www.coursera.org/course/algs4partI
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_structure

### Books
+ The Algorithm Design Manual, Steven.S.Skiena - An excellent reference to algorithm design and many common data types. 
+ "The Art of Computer Programming", Donald Knuth.

----

# Graphs
+ [Hierarchical Scheduling of DAG Structured Computations on Manycore Processors with Dynamic Thread Grouping](http://www.cs.huji.ac.il/~feit/parsched/jsspp10/p9-xia.pdf), Yinglong Xia, et al.
+ [Querying Graph Patterns](http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/libkin/papers/pods11b.pdf)
+ [Patterns in graphs](https://mathman.biz/html/patgraph.html)

----

# [HMM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hidden_Markov_model)
+ http://www.ece.ucsb.edu/Faculty/Rabiner/ece259/Reprints/tutorial%20on%20hmm%20and%20applications.pdf
+ Computational biology, http://www.rosalind.info

----

# Machine Learning
+ {Paper} : [Evaluation of Deep Learning Frameworks](https://github.com/zer0n/deepframeworks).
+ Setting up a [Deep Learning Machine from Scratch for Kubuntu](https://github.com/saiprashanths/dl-setup).
+ Julia Libraries, https://github.com/svaksha/Julia.jl/blob/master/AI.md#machine-learning
+ Python libraries, https://github.com/svaksha/pythonidae/blob/master/AI.md#machine-learning
+ https://github.com/hangtwenty/dive-into-machine-learning
+ https://www.udacity.com/podcasts/linear-digressions
+ https://soundcloud.com/oreilly-radar/sets/the-oreilly-data-show-podcast (feed here)
+ http://www.thetalkingmachines.com/ways-to-listen
+ http://www.partiallyderivative.com/
+ http://mathworld.wolfram.com/MaximumLikelihood.html

## Books
Information Science and Statistics 
+ Bishop: Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer.
  + http://users.isr.ist.utl.pt/~wurmd/Livros/school/Bishop%20-%20Pattern%20Recognition%20And%20Machine%20Learning%20-%20Springer%20%202006.pdf
  + http://www.rmki.kfki.hu/~banmi/elte/Bishop%20-%20Pattern%20Recognition%20and%20Machine%20Learning.pdf
+ Akaike and Kitagawa: The Practice of Time Series Analysis. 
+ Cowell, Dawid, Lauritzen, and Spiegelhalter: Probabilistic Networks and Expert Systems. 
+ Doucet, de Freitas, and Gordon: Sequential Monte Carlo Methods in Practice. 
+ Fine: Feedforward Neural Network Methodology. 
+ Hawkins and Olwell: Cumulative Sum Charts and Charting for Quality Improvement. 
+ Jensen: Bayesian Networks and Decision Graphs. 
+ Marchette: Computer Intrusion Detection and Network Monitoring:A Statistical Viewpoint. 
+ Rubinstein and Kroese: The Cross-Entropy Method:  A Unified Approach to Combinatorial Optimization, Monte Carlo Simulation, and Machine Learning. 
+ Studený: Probabilistic Conditional Independence Structures.
+ Vapnik: The Nature of Statistical Learning Theory, Second Edition.  
+ Wallace: Statistical and Inductive Inference by Minimum Massage Length.

## Probability
+ http://mathworld.wolfram.com/MaximumLikelihood.html
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monty_Hall_problem
+ 

### [Cramer Rao](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cram%C3%A9r%E2%80%93Rao_bound) Bounds
+ http://willett.ece.wisc.edu/wp-uploads/2016/01/16-CRLB.pdf
+ CHAPTER 2. Cramer-Rao lower bound: http//www.cs.tut.fi/~hehu/SSP/lecture2.pdf
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cram%C3%A9r%E2%80%93Rao_bound

----

# Machine Translation
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistical_machine_translation
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apertium
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anusaaraka
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenLogos, http://logos-os.dfki.de/#mozTocId415559

----

# NLP

## Sentiment Analysis
+ Front End Resources: Ajax Hacks : http://webmasters.stackexchange.com/questions/22338/why-not-ajaxify-entire-websites
+ Back End Resources:
+ http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/reference/river/
+ https://dev.twitter.com/programs/twitter-certified-products/products

### NLTK
* NLTK trainer, https://bitbucket.org/japerk/nltk-trainer/src
* https://github.com/marcua/tweeql/
* http://streamhacker.com/2010/10/25/training-binary-text-classifiers-nltk-trainer/
* http://www.laurentluce.com/posts/twitter-sentiment-analysis-using-python-and-nltk/

###### Resources: Books
+ A topic modeling paper is Latent Dirichlet Allocation by Blei.
+ https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/introduction-algorithms
+ http://www.amazon.com/The-Art-Computer-Programming-Vol/dp/0201896834
+ G. Bordogna, M. Pagani, and G. Pasi, Soft Computing for Information Retrieval on the Web. Springer Verlag, 2006.
+ Indurkhya, N., and Damerau, F. Handbook Of Natural Language Processing, 2nd Edition CRC 2010
+ Sebastiani, (2002) Machine learning in automated text categorization, ACM Computing Surveys, 34 (1), 1-47.
+ On The Use of Fuzzy Rules to Text Document Classification: Tatiane M. Nogueira, Solange O. Rezende, Heloisa A. Camargo
+ A fuzzy approach to classifying text documents, Liu , Song.
+ http://www.nltk.org/book/ch06.html

### Software
+ http://spaceandtim.es/opennews/broca
+ https://github.com/ftzeng/broca
+ Automated Job Description Text analyzers : 
   + [Textio](https://textio.com/)
   + [Joblint](http://joblint.org/) and the [source code](https://github.com/rowanmanning/joblint).

----

# Statistical Modelling
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predictive_modelling
