chem-physical.md, before:

+ Chemical Kinetics
+ Chemical Physics
+ Electrochemistry
+ Femtochemistry
+ Geochemistry
+ Photochemistry
+ Quantum Chemistry
+ [Solid State Chemistry](#solid-state-chemistry)
   + [Crystallography](#crystallography)
+ [Spectroscopy](#spectroscopy)
+ [Stereochemistry](#stereochemistry)
+ Surface Science
+ Thermochemistry

----

# [Solid State Chemistry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solid-state_chemistry)
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solid-state_chemistry
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biomolecule

## Crystallography
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X-ray_crystallography
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huygens%E2%80%93Fresnel_principle
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kirchhoff%27s_diffraction_formula
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green%27s_theorem

+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electron
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neutron

### Events
+ [ACDM workshop](http://www.chem.gla.ac.uk/~louis/asia_workshop/) and a [PDF](http://www.chem.gla.ac.uk/~louis/asia_workshop/Program_ACDM.pdf)

### Software
+ http://www.iucr.org/resources/other-directories/software?result_42405_result_page=M
+ http://www.crystal.chem.ed.ac.uk/links/software.php
+ [MoleCoolQt](http://www.molecoolqt.de/index.html) is the viewer for WinXD.
+ [MoPro](http://www.iucr.org/resources/other-directories/software/mopro) software (in Fortran and Java) and [slides](http://www.cdifx.univ-rennes1.fr/RECIPROCS/sept2011/pdf/RECIPROCS_ANGD2011_MoPro_Jelsch.pdf) by the core-devs.
+ [Crystal Explorer](http://hirshfeldsurface.net/) and the [wiki](http://130.95.176.70/wiki/index.php/)
+ http://www.cryst.chem.uu.nl/platon/pl000000.html
 
 
###### Resources
+ [Crystallographic software list](http://www.iucr.org/resources/other-directories/software) 
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Photon_Source

---- 

# [Stereochemistry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Stereochemistry)
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Molecular_geometry
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Molecular_geometry

Commit message:

An Algorithm Set To Revolutionize 3-D Protein Structure Discovery

chem-physical.md, after:

+ Chemical Kinetics
+ Chemical Physics
+ Electrochemistry
+ Femtochemistry
+ Geochemistry
+ Photochemistry
+ Quantum Chemistry
+ [Solid State Chemistry](#solid-state-chemistry)
   + [Crystallography](#crystallography)
+ [Spectroscopy](#spectroscopy)
+ [Stereochemistry](#stereochemistry)
+ Surface Science
+ Thermochemistry

----

# [Solid State Chemistry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solid-state_chemistry)
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solid-state_chemistry
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biomolecule

## Crystallography
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X-ray_crystallography
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huygens%E2%80%93Fresnel_principle
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kirchhoff%27s_diffraction_formula
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green%27s_theorem

+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electron
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neutron

### Publications
+ [An Algorithm Set To Revolutionize 3-D Protein Structure Discovery](http://www.technologyreview.com/view/536976/an-algorithm-set-to-revolutionize-3-d-protein-structure-discovery/).

### Events
+ [ACDM workshop](http://www.chem.gla.ac.uk/~louis/asia_workshop/) and a [PDF](http://www.chem.gla.ac.uk/~louis/asia_workshop/Program_ACDM.pdf)

### Software
+ http://www.iucr.org/resources/other-directories/software?result_42405_result_page=M
+ http://www.crystal.chem.ed.ac.uk/links/software.php
+ [MoleCoolQt](http://www.molecoolqt.de/index.html) is the viewer for WinXD.
+ [MoPro](http://www.iucr.org/resources/other-directories/software/mopro) software (in Fortran and Java) and [slides](http://www.cdifx.univ-rennes1.fr/RECIPROCS/sept2011/pdf/RECIPROCS_ANGD2011_MoPro_Jelsch.pdf) by the core-devs.
+ [Crystal Explorer](http://hirshfeldsurface.net/) and the [wiki](http://130.95.176.70/wiki/index.php/)
+ http://www.cryst.chem.uu.nl/platon/pl000000.html
 
 
###### Resources
+ [Crystallographic software list](http://www.iucr.org/resources/other-directories/software) 
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Photon_Source

---- 

# [Stereochemistry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Stereochemistry)
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Molecular_geometry
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Molecular_geometry
