cs-graphics.md, before:

+ [Algorithms](#algorithms)
+ [3D Libs](#3d-libs)
+ [File Formats](#file-formats)
+ [Imaging](Imaging)
+ [UML Tools](#uml-tools)
+ [Video](#video)
+ [Visualization](#visualization)

----

+ CV, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_vision
+ [Visual Computing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visual_Computing)
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Computer_vision
+ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Free_data_visualization_software

----

# Algorithms
+ MLAA : http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/229353/MLAA-Efficiently-Moving-Antialiasing-from-the-GPU

----

# Imaging
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integral_imaging
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:3D_imaging


### Convert .jpg to .pdf
+ http://askubuntu.com/questions/246647/jpeg-files-to-pdf

### Reduce image size
+ http://ubuntu.5.x6.nabble.com/how-to-compress-jpeg-to-reduce-size-td1310250.html

----

# 3D Libs
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gallium3D

----

# [File Formats](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Graphics_file_formats)
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image_file_formats
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raster_graphics
+ True color, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Color_depth#True_color_.2824-bit.29
+ https://helpx.adobe.com/photoshop/using/file-formats.html

----

# UML Tools
+ http://askubuntu.com/questions/9405/what-uml-unified-modelling-language-tools-are-available
+ Dia

----

# Video
+ http://www.pyimagesearch.com/2015/09/07/blur-detection-with-opencv/
+ blurry youtube video converter: http://www.wikihow.com/Convert-YouTube-Videos
+ Split video into pictures: http://softwarerecs.stackexchange.com/questions/6783/split-video-into-pictures?rq=1
+ http://superuser.com/questions/135117/how-to-convert-video-to-images/729351#729351
+ http://superuser.com/questions/135117/how-to-convert-video-to-images/729351#729351
+ http://docs.opencv.org/2.4/doc/tutorials/imgproc/table_of_content_imgproc/table_of_content_imgproc.html#table-of-content-imgproc
+ http://scikit-image.org/

### Papers
+ http://optica.csic.es/papers/icpr2k.pdf

----

# Visualization
+ Bokeh for visualization - draw the brain : https://www.continuum.io/blog/developer-blog/drawing-brain-bokeh

Commit message:

examples on how to do things with OpenCV on Python

cs-graphics.md, after:

+ [Algorithms](#algorithms)
+ [3D Libs](#3d-libs)
+ [File Formats](#file-formats)
+ [Imaging](Imaging)
+ [UML Tools](#uml-tools)
+ [Video](#video)
+ [Visualization](#visualization)

----

+ CV, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_vision
+ [Visual Computing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visual_Computing)
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Computer_vision
+ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Free_data_visualization_software

----

# Algorithms
+ MLAA : http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/229353/MLAA-Efficiently-Moving-Antialiasing-from-the-GPU

----

# Imaging
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integral_imaging
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:3D_imaging


### Convert .jpg to .pdf
+ http://askubuntu.com/questions/246647/jpeg-files-to-pdf

### Reduce image size
+ http://ubuntu.5.x6.nabble.com/how-to-compress-jpeg-to-reduce-size-td1310250.html

----

# 3D Libs
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gallium3D

----

# [File Formats](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Graphics_file_formats)
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image_file_formats
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raster_graphics
+ True color, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Color_depth#True_color_.2824-bit.29
+ https://helpx.adobe.com/photoshop/using/file-formats.html

----

# UML Tools
+ http://askubuntu.com/questions/9405/what-uml-unified-modelling-language-tools-are-available
+ Dia

----

# Video
+ http://www.pyimagesearch.com/2015/09/07/blur-detection-with-opencv/
+ blurry youtube video converter: http://www.wikihow.com/Convert-YouTube-Videos
+ Split video into pictures: http://softwarerecs.stackexchange.com/questions/6783/split-video-into-pictures?rq=1
+ http://superuser.com/questions/135117/how-to-convert-video-to-images/729351#729351
+ http://superuser.com/questions/135117/how-to-convert-video-to-images/729351#729351
+ http://docs.opencv.org/2.4/doc/tutorials/imgproc/table_of_content_imgproc/table_of_content_imgproc.html#table-of-content-imgproc
+ http://scikit-image.org/
+ https://github.com/piratefsh/image-processing-101 :: Code examples on how to do things with OpenCV on Python

### Papers
+ http://optica.csic.es/papers/icpr2k.pdf

----

# Visualization
+ Bokeh for visualization - draw the brain : https://www.continuum.io/blog/developer-blog/drawing-brain-bokeh
