data-formats.md, before:

+ [Encoding](#encoding)
+ [LaTeX](#latex)
+ [XML](#xml)

----

# [Encoding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Character_encoding)
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Natural_language_and_computing
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Character_encoding
+ Ascii : https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glyph

----

+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Open_formats
+ [Markup Languages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Markup_languages)
+ DTD : A [document type definition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Document_type_definition) is a set of markup declarations that define a document type for an SGML-family markup language (SGML, XML, HTML).

----

# [LaTeX](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LaTeX)
+ http://robjhyndman.com/hyndsight/latex/
+ Prof. Edward R. Scheinerman's resources to "[Learn LaTeX](http://www.ams.jhu.edu/~ers/learn-latex/)".
+ http://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/8374/the-key-to-understanding-the-latex-syntax
+ latex for MATH: http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/LaTeX/Mathematics
+ LaTeX tutorial : http://www.pages.drexel.edu/~pyo22/students/latexRelated/latexTutorial.html
+ http://latex-project.org/intro.html
+ https://github.com/higham/latex-tips
+ Tables in LaTeX: http://robjhyndman.com/hyndsight/tables-in-latex/

### LaTex2PDF
+ http://robjhyndman.com/hyndsight/xelatex/
+ http://www.latex-community.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=5&t=22560
+ https://math.berkeley.edu/~vojta/tex/pdf.html
+ http://www.mathstat.dal.ca/~selinger/pdfa/
+ http://www-rohan.sdsu.edu/~aty/bibliog/latex/LaTeXtoPDF.html
+ http://askubuntu.com/questions/166679/how-can-i-convert-a-tex-file-to-pdf-on-via-the-command-line
+ http://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/21405/how-to-create-pdf-with-command-line-using-miktex

### Automate LaTeX
+ [arara](https://github.com/cereda/arara) is a TeX automation tool based on rules and directives to help you enhance your TeX experience.
+ https://github.com/cmhughes/latexindent.pl

### Paper Writing
+ https://github.com/sympy/sympy-paper

----

# [XML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XML)
+ Python docs: https://docs.python.org/3/library/xml.etree.elementtree.html
+ http://www.tutorialspoint.com/python/python_xml_processing.htm
+ http://stackoverflow.com/questions/12322345/python-lxml-how-to-validate-file-using-xml-schema-file-defined-in-the-xml-file?rq=1
+ https://www2.informatik.hu-berlin.de/~xing/Lib/Docs/jaxp/docs/tutorial/sax/1_write.html
+ http://www.yegor256.com/2015/11/16/json-vs-xml.html

## Python with XML
+ https://docs.python.org/3/library/xml.etree.elementtree.html
+ https://www.google.de/#q=how+to+read+xml+file+in+python

Commit message:

pandoc for MD to ODT

data-formats.md, after:

+ [Encoding](#encoding)
+ [JSON](#json)
+ [LaTeX](#latex)
+ [Pandoc](#pandoc)
+ [XML](#xml)

----

+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Open_formats
+ [Markup Languages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Markup_languages)
+ DTD : A [document type definition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Document_type_definition) is a set of markup declarations that define a document type for an SGML-family markup language (SGML, XML, HTML).

#### Compare Data Formats
+ http://www.yegor256.com/2015/11/16/json-vs-xml.html
+ http://www.cs.tufts.edu/comp/150IDS/final_papers/tstras01.1/FinalReport/FinalReport.html
+ https://blog.udemy.com/json-vs-xml/
+ http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4862310/json-and-xml-comparison
+ http://programmers.stackexchange.com/questions/224929/is-csv-a-good-alternative-to-xml-and-json
+ http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1820129/when-and-why-is-xml-preferable-to-csv

----

# [Encoding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Character_encoding)
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Natural_language_and_computing
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Character_encoding
+ Ascii : https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glyph

----

# JSON
+ http://json-ld.org/

----

# [LaTeX](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LaTeX)
+ http://robjhyndman.com/hyndsight/latex/
+ Prof. Edward R. Scheinerman's resources to "[Learn LaTeX](http://www.ams.jhu.edu/~ers/learn-latex/)".
+ http://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/8374/the-key-to-understanding-the-latex-syntax
+ latex for MATH: http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/LaTeX/Mathematics
+ LaTeX tutorial : http://www.pages.drexel.edu/~pyo22/students/latexRelated/latexTutorial.html
+ http://latex-project.org/intro.html
+ https://github.com/higham/latex-tips
+ Tables in LaTeX: http://robjhyndman.com/hyndsight/tables-in-latex/

### LaTex2PDF
+ http://robjhyndman.com/hyndsight/xelatex/
+ http://www.latex-community.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=5&t=22560
+ https://math.berkeley.edu/~vojta/tex/pdf.html
+ http://www.mathstat.dal.ca/~selinger/pdfa/
+ http://www-rohan.sdsu.edu/~aty/bibliog/latex/LaTeXtoPDF.html
+ http://askubuntu.com/questions/166679/how-can-i-convert-a-tex-file-to-pdf-on-via-the-command-line
+ http://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/21405/how-to-create-pdf-with-command-line-using-miktex

### Automate LaTeX
+ [arara](https://github.com/cereda/arara) is a TeX automation tool based on rules and directives to help you enhance your TeX experience.
+ https://github.com/cmhughes/latexindent.pl

### Paper Writing
+ https://github.com/sympy/sympy-paper

----

# Pandoc 
+ http://pandoc.org/demos.html
+ http://pandoc.org/
+ http://writers.stackexchange.com/questions/9056/from-markdown-to-odt-and-vice-versa-a-possible-distraction-free-writing-workfl

----

# [XML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XML)
+ Python docs: https://docs.python.org/3/library/xml.etree.elementtree.html
+ http://www.tutorialspoint.com/python/python_xml_processing.htm
+ http://stackoverflow.com/questions/12322345/python-lxml-how-to-validate-file-using-xml-schema-file-defined-in-the-xml-file?rq=1
+ https://www2.informatik.hu-berlin.de/~xing/Lib/Docs/jaxp/docs/tutorial/sax/1_write.html

## Python with XML
+ https://docs.python.org/3/library/xml.etree.elementtree.html
+ https://www.google.de/#q=how+to+read+xml+file+in+python
