genomics.md, before:

* [EpiGenetics](#epigenetics)
   - [Papers](#papers)
   - [Videos](#videos)
* [Eukaryotics](#eukaryotics)
* [Gene](#gene)
* [Genome](#genome)
* [Proteomics](#proteomics)

----

* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_omics_topics_in_biology
* CAT:Genomics :: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Genomics
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical_genetics
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Structural_biology
* Molecular medicine, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Molecular_medicine
* Computational biology, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_biology
* Functional genomics, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Functional_genomics
* Structural Genomics, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Structural_genomics
* Public health genomics, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_health_genomics
* Metabolomics :: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metabolomics
* Gene expression profiling :: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene_expression_profiling
* [Weighted correlation (gene co-expression) network analysis](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weighted_correlation_network_analysis).
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparative_genomics

----

# EpiGenetics 
* [Epigenetics](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epigenetics)
* Game to learn Epigenetics: [Gene Control game to learn Genetics](http://learn.genetics.utah.edu/content/epigenetics/control/), Genetic Science Learning Center, University of Utah.

### Papers
* [Genomic imprinting: recognition and marking of imprinted loci](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22195775)
* [Transposable Elements: Targets for Early Nutritional Effects on Epigenetic Gene Regulation](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC165709/)
* [Transposable Elements: Targets for Early Nutritional Effects on Epigenetic Gene Regulation](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC165709/)
* [Chromatin Shearing](http://epigenie.com/epigenie-guide-chromatin-shearing/) and the link to the [PDF](http://epigenie.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/Chromatin-Shearing_D4.pdf) file.
* [EpiGenie 5hmC Technology](http://epigenie.com/epigenie-5hmc-technology-guide/) guide and the [PDF](http://media.epigenie.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/5hmC-Technology-Guide_D71.pdf) link.
* [RNA Immunoprecipitation (RIP) and Beyond](http://epigenie.com/epigenie-guide-rna-immunoprecipitation-rip-and-beyond/) guide and the [PDF](http://epigenie.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/RIP-Guide_D3.pdf) file.
* [Getting Started with Genome-Wide 5-mC and 5-hmC Sequencing](http://epigenie.com/guide-getting-started-with-genome-wide-5-mc-and-5-hmc-sequencing/) and the [PDF](http://epigenie.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/Zymo-DNAm-Sequencing-Guide_D4.pdf) file.

### Videos
* [Imprinted Genes and Fetal Growth with Dr Gudrun Moore](http://epigenie.com/imprinted-genes-and-fetal-growth-with-dr-gudrun-moore/).
* [X-Inactivation and Epigenetics](http://www.wehi.edu.au/x_inactivation_and_epigenetics/), Uno E and Berry D. (2012), Walter and Eliza Hall Institute.
* [Epigenetics and the influence of our genes](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JTBg6hqeuTg) by Dr. Courtney Griffins, 23/Feb/2013.

----

# Eukaryotics
* The [yeast "Saccharomyces cerevisiae"](https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Saccharomyces_cerevisiae) was the first eukaryotic genome that was completely sequenced.
* Eukaryote :: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eukaryote
* Prokaryote :: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prokaryote

----

# Gene
* Gene, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene
* Gene prediction, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene_prediction
* Gene flow, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene_flow
* List of A1 genes, proteins or receptors: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_A1_genes,_proteins_or_receptors
* List of human genes: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_human_genes
* Gene fusion :: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene_fusion
* The U.S. National Library of Medicine's Genetics Home Reference on [Genes](http://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/BrowseGenes) 

### GeneOntology
* [Automation and validation of micronucleus detection in the 3D EpiDerm™ human reconstructed skin assay and correlation with 2D dose responses](http://europepmc.org/articles/PMC3983754).

----

# Genome 
* [NCBI Genome Assembly Model](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/assembly/model/)

### Genetic Analysis
- [Central dogma, gene to protein](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21811/)
- [Inheritance (basic, x-linked)](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21977/)
- [Mendel’s experiments, crosses, independent assortment](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22098/)
- [Inheritance of organelle genes](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22059/)
- [Mitosis/meiosis](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21836/)
- [Genetic markers](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21962/)
- [SNPs, gene mapping](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21841/)
- [Mutations as sources of variation](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22012/)
- [Mutations types](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22011/)
- [Occurrence of mutations](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21833/)
- [Variable penetrance](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22090/)
- [Epistasis](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21850/)
- [Mapping complex traits, QTL](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22110/)
- [Continuous genetic variation](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22007/) 
- [Genotypes and phenotypic distribution](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21994/)
- [Heritability](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22001/)
- [Quantifying heritability](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21866/)
- [Mean/variance/ correlation](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21772/)
- [Heritability/Breeder’s Equation](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21832/)
-

----

# Proteomics
* Proteome :: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proteome
* [Proteomics](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proteomics) : the large-scale study of proteins, particularly their structures and functions.
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protein_sequencing (replaced by nucleic acid technology)
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edman_degradation

Commit message:

Variation and divergence of populations

genomics.md, after:

* [EpiGenetics](#epigenetics)
   - [Papers](#papers)
   - [Videos](#videos)
* [Eukaryotics](#eukaryotics)
* [Gene](#gene)
* [Genome](#genome)
* [Proteomics](#proteomics)

----

* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_omics_topics_in_biology
* CAT:Genomics :: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Genomics
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical_genetics
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Structural_biology
* Molecular medicine, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Molecular_medicine
* Computational biology, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_biology
* Functional genomics, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Functional_genomics
* Structural Genomics, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Structural_genomics
* Public health genomics, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_health_genomics
* Metabolomics :: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metabolomics
* Gene expression profiling :: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene_expression_profiling
* [Weighted correlation (gene co-expression) network analysis](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weighted_correlation_network_analysis).
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparative_genomics

----

# EpiGenetics 
* [Epigenetics](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epigenetics)
* Game to learn Epigenetics: [Gene Control game to learn Genetics](http://learn.genetics.utah.edu/content/epigenetics/control/), Genetic Science Learning Center, University of Utah.

### Papers
* [Genomic imprinting: recognition and marking of imprinted loci](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22195775)
* [Transposable Elements: Targets for Early Nutritional Effects on Epigenetic Gene Regulation](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC165709/)
* [Transposable Elements: Targets for Early Nutritional Effects on Epigenetic Gene Regulation](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC165709/)
* [Chromatin Shearing](http://epigenie.com/epigenie-guide-chromatin-shearing/) and the link to the [PDF](http://epigenie.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/Chromatin-Shearing_D4.pdf) file.
* [EpiGenie 5hmC Technology](http://epigenie.com/epigenie-5hmc-technology-guide/) guide and the [PDF](http://media.epigenie.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/5hmC-Technology-Guide_D71.pdf) link.
* [RNA Immunoprecipitation (RIP) and Beyond](http://epigenie.com/epigenie-guide-rna-immunoprecipitation-rip-and-beyond/) guide and the [PDF](http://epigenie.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/RIP-Guide_D3.pdf) file.
* [Getting Started with Genome-Wide 5-mC and 5-hmC Sequencing](http://epigenie.com/guide-getting-started-with-genome-wide-5-mc-and-5-hmc-sequencing/) and the [PDF](http://epigenie.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/Zymo-DNAm-Sequencing-Guide_D4.pdf) file.

### Videos
* [Imprinted Genes and Fetal Growth with Dr Gudrun Moore](http://epigenie.com/imprinted-genes-and-fetal-growth-with-dr-gudrun-moore/).
* [X-Inactivation and Epigenetics](http://www.wehi.edu.au/x_inactivation_and_epigenetics/), Uno E and Berry D. (2012), Walter and Eliza Hall Institute.
* [Epigenetics and the influence of our genes](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JTBg6hqeuTg) by Dr. Courtney Griffins, 23/Feb/2013.

----

# Eukaryotics
* The [yeast "Saccharomyces cerevisiae"](https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Saccharomyces_cerevisiae) was the first eukaryotic genome that was completely sequenced.
* Eukaryote :: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eukaryote
* Prokaryote :: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prokaryote

----

# Gene
* Gene, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene
* Gene prediction, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene_prediction
* Gene flow, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene_flow
* List of A1 genes, proteins or receptors: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_A1_genes,_proteins_or_receptors
* List of human genes: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_human_genes
* Gene fusion :: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene_fusion
* The U.S. National Library of Medicine's Genetics Home Reference on [Genes](http://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/BrowseGenes) 

### GeneOntology
* [Automation and validation of micronucleus detection in the 3D EpiDerm™ human reconstructed skin assay and correlation with 2D dose responses](http://europepmc.org/articles/PMC3983754).

----

# Genome 
* [NCBI Genome Assembly Model](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/assembly/model/)

### Genetic Analysis
- [Central dogma, gene to protein](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21811/)
- [Inheritance (basic, x-linked)](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21977/)
- [Mendel’s experiments, crosses, independent assortment](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22098/)
- [Inheritance of organelle genes](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22059/)
- [Mitosis/meiosis](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21836/)
- [Genetic markers](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21962/)
- [SNPs, gene mapping](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21841/)
- [Mutations as sources of variation](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22012/)
- [Mutations types](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22011/)
- [Occurrence of mutations](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21833/)
- [Variable penetrance](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22090/)
- [Epistasis](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21850/)
- [Mapping complex traits, QTL](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22110/)
- [Continuous genetic variation](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22007/) 
- [Genotypes and phenotypic distribution](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21994/)
- [Heritability](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22001/)
- [Quantifying heritability](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21866/)
- [Mean/variance/ correlation](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21772/)
- [Heritability/Breeder’s Equation](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21832/)
- [Allele frequencies](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22048/)
- [Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22048/box/A3848/)
- [Variation and divergence of populations](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21757/)
- [Inbreeding](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK22049/)

----

# Proteomics
* Proteome :: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proteome
* [Proteomics](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proteomics) : the large-scale study of proteins, particularly their structures and functions.
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protein_sequencing (replaced by nucleic acid technology)
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edman_degradation
