math.md, before:

+ [PAPERS](#papers)
+ [BOOKS](#books)
+ [Resources](#resources)
+ [Calculus and Analysis](#calculus-and-analysis)
+ [Calculus-II](#calculus-ii)
+ [Combinatorics](#combinatorics)
   + [Julia Sets](#julia-sets)
+ [Numerical Analysis](#numerical-analysis)
+ [Geometry](#geometry)
+ [Linear Algebra](#linear-algebra)
+ [Type Theory](#type-theory)

----

# PAPERS
+ Arithmetic : [A "two-product" style algorithm paper](http://www.ti3.tu-harburg.de/paper/rump/OgRuOi05.pdf).
+ [Associative-Commutative Discrimination Nets](http://www.cs.tufts.edu/~nr/cs257/archive/leo-bachmair/ac-discrimination-nets.pdf)
+ Richard Jenk's paper ["A Pattern Compiler"](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=806324&dl=ACM&coll=DL&CFID=621425526&CFTOKEN=54560421)

----


# Books
+ [The Art of Problem Solving](http://artofproblemsolving.com/store/item/aops-vol2), Volume 2: and Beyond, Richard Rusczyk and Sandor Lehoczky.

----

# Resources

+ http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hE7l6Adoiiw
+ vihart.com/doodling , http://vihart.com/doodling/
+ WaterJugs puzzle, http://delphiforfun.org/programs/WaterJugs.htm
+ math-sci-net, http://www.ams.org/mathscinet
+ highwire, http://highwire.stanford.edu:4141/

----

# Calculus and Analysis
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lambda_calculus
+ http://tutorial.math.lamar.edu/Classes/Calci/RateOfChange.aspx
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antiderivative
+ [ceil](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Floor_and_ceiling_functions) and the [matlab definition](https://www.mathworks.com/help/matlab/ref/ceil.html)

# Calculus-II
+ Calculus-II course at Lamar University: http://tutorial.math.lamar.edu/Classes/CalcII/CalcII.aspx

### Integral Transforms
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exponential_integral
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integral_geometry
+ http://mathworld.wolfram.com/IntegralTransform.html
+ http://www.encyclopediaofmath.org/index.php/Singular_integral_equation

----

# Crypto
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_function
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Hashing

----

# [Combinatorics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Combinatorics)
+ Curse of dimensionality, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curse_of_dimensionality
+ http://aofa.cs.princeton.edu 
+ http://ac.cs.princeton.edu

### Julia Sets
+ 2004, [Hyperbolic Julia Sets are Poly-Time Computable](http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~mbraverm/Papers/CCA04.pdf), Mark Braverman.
+ [A BRIEF INTRODUCTION TO JULIA SETS OF RATIONAL MAPS](http://new.oberlin.edu/arts-and-sciences/departments/mathematics/documents/projects/SamGhitelmanHonorsPaper.pdf), SAMUEL J. GHITELMAN

----

# Numerical Analysis
+ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Linux_numerical_analysis_software

----

# Geometry
+ [Chirality in MATH](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chirality_%28mathematics%29) and [Chirality in Organic Chemistry](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chirality_%28chemistry%29).
+ http://mathworld.wolfram.com/Slope.html
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integral_geometry
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geometric_Shapes

#### Papers
+ http://arxiv.org/pdf/1404.1499v2.pdf

----

# Linear Algebra
+ https://www.khanacademy.org/math/linear-algebra
   + Video : https://www.khanacademy.org/math/linear-algebra/matrix_transformations/linear_transformations/v/vector-transformations
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_algebra
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cholesky_decomposition
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LU_decomposition
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matrix_%28mathematics%29
+ [Matrix and Linear Algebra](http://www.economics.soton.ac.uk/staff/aldrich/matrices.htm)

----

### sparse distributed matrix
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Array_data_type
+ https://ch.mathworks.com/help/distcomp/sparse.html
+ https://ch.mathworks.com/help/distcomp/distributed.spalloc.html

----

# [Type Theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Type_theory)
## [Data Types](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_type)
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enumerated_type

----


# Greek Alphabets
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greek_alphabet#Letters

| Letter |	Name |
|Α α |	alpha, άλφα |
Β β 	beta, βήτα 	[b] 	[v]
Γ γ 	gamma, γάμμα 	[ɡ] 	[ɣ] ~ [ʝ]
Δ δ 	delta, δέλτα 	[d] 	[ð]
Ε ε 	epsilon, έψιλον 	[e] 	[e]
Ζ ζ 	zeta, ζήτα 	[zd]A 	[z]
Η η 	eta, ήτα 	[ɛː] 	[i]
Θ θ 	theta, θήτα 	[tʰ] 	[θ]
Ι ι 	iota, ιώτα 	[i] [iː] 	[i]
Κ κ 	kappa, κάππα 	[k] 	[k] ~ [c]
Λ λ 	lambda, λάμδα 	[l] 	[l]
Μ μ 	mu, μυ 	[m] 	[m]
	
Letter 	Name 	Sound Ancient[5] 	Modern[6]
Ν ν 	nu, νυ 	[n] 	[n]
Ξ ξ 	xi, ξι 	[ks] 	[ks]
Ο ο 	omicron, όμικρον 	[o] 	[o]
Π π 	pi, πι 	[p] 	[p]
Ρ ρ 	rho, ρώ 	[r] 	[r]
Σ σ/ς[8] 	sigma, σίγμα 	[s] 	[s]
Τ τ 	tau, ταυ 	[t] 	[t]
Υ υ 	upsilon, ύψιλον 	[y] [yː] 	[i]
Φ φ 	phi, φι 	[pʰ] 	[f]
Χ χ 	chi, χι 	[kʰ] 	[x] ~ [ç]
Ψ ψ 	psi, ψι 	[ps] 	[ps]
Ω ω 	omega, ωμέγα 	[ɔː] 	[o]

----

Commit message:

Software Basics for High Performance Computing

math.md, after:

+ [PAPERS](#papers)
+ [BOOKS](#books)
+ [Resources](#resources)
+ [Calculus and Analysis](#calculus-and-analysis)
+ [Calculus-II](#calculus-ii)
+ [Combinatorics](#combinatorics)
   + [Julia Sets](#julia-sets)
+ [Numerical Analysis](#numerical-analysis)
+ [Geometry](#geometry)
+ [Linear Algebra](#linear-algebra)
+ [Type Theory](#type-theory)

----

# PAPERS
+ Arithmetic : [A "two-product" style algorithm paper](http://www.ti3.tu-harburg.de/paper/rump/OgRuOi05.pdf).
+ [Associative-Commutative Discrimination Nets](http://www.cs.tufts.edu/~nr/cs257/archive/leo-bachmair/ac-discrimination-nets.pdf)
+ Richard Jenk's paper ["A Pattern Compiler"](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=806324&dl=ACM&coll=DL&CFID=621425526&CFTOKEN=54560421)

----

# Books
+ [The Art of Problem Solving](http://artofproblemsolving.com/store/item/aops-vol2), Volume 2: and Beyond, Richard Rusczyk and Sandor Lehoczky.

----

# Resources

+ http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hE7l6Adoiiw
+ vihart.com/doodling , http://vihart.com/doodling/
+ WaterJugs puzzle, http://delphiforfun.org/programs/WaterJugs.htm
+ math-sci-net, http://www.ams.org/mathscinet
+ highwire, http://highwire.stanford.edu:4141/

----

# Calculus and Analysis
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lambda_calculus
+ http://tutorial.math.lamar.edu/Classes/Calci/RateOfChange.aspx
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antiderivative
+ [ceil](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Floor_and_ceiling_functions) and the [matlab definition](https://www.mathworks.com/help/matlab/ref/ceil.html)

# Calculus-II
+ Calculus-II course at Lamar University: http://tutorial.math.lamar.edu/Classes/CalcII/CalcII.aspx

### Integral Transforms
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exponential_integral
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integral_geometry
+ http://mathworld.wolfram.com/IntegralTransform.html
+ http://www.encyclopediaofmath.org/index.php/Singular_integral_equation

----

# Crypto
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_function
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Hashing

----

# [Combinatorics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Combinatorics)
+ Curse of dimensionality, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curse_of_dimensionality
+ http://aofa.cs.princeton.edu 
+ http://ac.cs.princeton.edu

### Julia Sets
+ 2004, [Hyperbolic Julia Sets are Poly-Time Computable](http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~mbraverm/Papers/CCA04.pdf), Mark Braverman.
+ [A BRIEF INTRODUCTION TO JULIA SETS OF RATIONAL MAPS](http://new.oberlin.edu/arts-and-sciences/departments/mathematics/documents/projects/SamGhitelmanHonorsPaper.pdf), SAMUEL J. GHITELMAN

----

# Numerical Analysis
+ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Linux_numerical_analysis_software

----

# Geometry
+ [Chirality in MATH](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chirality_%28mathematics%29) and [Chirality in Organic Chemistry](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chirality_%28chemistry%29).
+ http://mathworld.wolfram.com/Slope.html
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integral_geometry
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geometric_Shapes

#### Papers
+ http://arxiv.org/pdf/1404.1499v2.pdf

----

# HPC-Math
+ Lecture "[Software Basics for High Performance Computing](https://github.com/michael-lehn/ulmBLAS)" (MATH9367) at Ulm University: 
   + http://apfel.mathematik.uni-ulm.de/~lehn/ulmBLAS
   + http://apfel.mathematik.uni-ulm.de/~lehn/sghpc
   + section demonstrating how to achieve peak performance for the matrix-matrix product: http://apfel.mathematik.uni-ulm.de/~lehn/sghpc/gemm/index.html

----

# Linear Algebra
+ https://www.khanacademy.org/math/linear-algebra
   + Video : https://www.khanacademy.org/math/linear-algebra/matrix_transformations/linear_transformations/v/vector-transformations
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_algebra
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cholesky_decomposition
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LU_decomposition
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matrix_%28mathematics%29
+ [Matrix and Linear Algebra](http://www.economics.soton.ac.uk/staff/aldrich/matrices.htm)

----

### sparse distributed matrix
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Array_data_type
+ https://ch.mathworks.com/help/distcomp/sparse.html
+ https://ch.mathworks.com/help/distcomp/distributed.spalloc.html

----

# [Type Theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Type_theory)
## [Data Types](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_type)
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enumerated_type

----


# Greek Alphabets
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greek_alphabet#Letters

| Letter |	Name |
|Α α |	alpha, άλφα |
Β β 	beta, βήτα 	[b] 	[v]
Γ γ 	gamma, γάμμα 	[ɡ] 	[ɣ] ~ [ʝ]
Δ δ 	delta, δέλτα 	[d] 	[ð]
Ε ε 	epsilon, έψιλον 	[e] 	[e]
Ζ ζ 	zeta, ζήτα 	[zd]A 	[z]
Η η 	eta, ήτα 	[ɛː] 	[i]
Θ θ 	theta, θήτα 	[tʰ] 	[θ]
Ι ι 	iota, ιώτα 	[i] [iː] 	[i]
Κ κ 	kappa, κάππα 	[k] 	[k] ~ [c]
Λ λ 	lambda, λάμδα 	[l] 	[l]
Μ μ 	mu, μυ 	[m] 	[m]
	
Letter 	Name 	Sound Ancient[5] 	Modern[6]
Ν ν 	nu, νυ 	[n] 	[n]
Ξ ξ 	xi, ξι 	[ks] 	[ks]
Ο ο 	omicron, όμικρον 	[o] 	[o]
Π π 	pi, πι 	[p] 	[p]
Ρ ρ 	rho, ρώ 	[r] 	[r]
Σ σ/ς[8] 	sigma, σίγμα 	[s] 	[s]
Τ τ 	tau, ταυ 	[t] 	[t]
Υ υ 	upsilon, ύψιλον 	[y] [yː] 	[i]
Φ φ 	phi, φι 	[pʰ] 	[f]
Χ χ 	chi, χι 	[kʰ] 	[x] ~ [ç]
Ψ ψ 	psi, ψι 	[ps] 	[ps]
Ω ω 	omega, ωμέγα 	[ɔː] 	[o]

----
