open-research.md, before:

+ [Resources](#resources)
+ [ARR](#arr)
+ [OpenScience](#openscience)
+ [OpenData](#opendata)
    + [DataScience](#datascience)
+ [OpenPub](#openpub)
+ [Quality](#quality)
    + [Data Quality](#data-quality)
+ [RDM](#rdm)
    + [DMP](#dmp)
+ [Scientific Research](#scientific-research)
+ [ORG](#org)
    + [DB](#db)

----

# Resources
+ http://cstheory.stackexchange.com/questions/1168/what-papers-should-everyone-read
+ https://github.com/firaswehbe/data-programming-resources/blob/master/openscience.md
+ https://erc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/content/pages/pdf/2.1%20Sabina%20Leonelli.pdf
+ statistical analysis, https://zedshaw.com/archive/a-rubric-for-it-analysis-papers/
+ https://www.google.de/search?q=infrastructure+for+analytical+reproducibility&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&gws_rd=cr&ei=GNp6V7e-CKqWgAatkYXYCQ
+ http://www.kdd.org/exploration_files/p1V11n1.pdf
+ https://scholar.google.de/scholar?oe=utf-8&gws_rd=cr&um=1&ie=UTF-8&lr&cites=11895311725021913820
+ http://www.nature.com/news/statisticians-issue-warning-over-misuse-of-p-values-1.19503
+ http://www.treesmapsandtheorems.com/
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PechaKucha
+ http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2016/09/12/how-proximity-and-trust-are-key-factors-in-getting-research-to-feed-into-policymaking/

----

# ARR
+ Reproducibility Project: Cancer Biology seeks participants to help evaluate #reproducibility: http://blogs.biomedcentral.com/bmcblog/2016/06/03/recruiting-participants-evaluate-reproducibility/
+ Blockchain : http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2016/07/21/could-blockchain-provide-the-technical-fix-to-solve-sciences-reproducibility-crisis/
+ http://www.nature.com/news/dutch-agency-launches-first-grants-programme-dedicated-to-replication-1.20287
+ http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v534/n7607/full/534326d.html
+ https://github.com/Reproducible-Science-Curriculum
+ A course on https://www.coursera.org/learn/reproducible-research
+ Gael's blog posts : 
    + 18 May 2015: http://gael-varoquaux.info/programming/software-for-reproducible-science-lets-not-have-a-misunderstanding.html
    + 28 November 2015: http://gael-varoquaux.info/programming/mloss-2015-wising-up-to-building-open-source-machine-learning.html
+ Prof. (Dr.) Titus Brown:
    + http://ivory.idyll.org/blog/2015-how-should-we-think-about-research-software.html
+ https://danielskatzblog.wordpress.com/2015/04/20/scientific-software-quality-versus-purpose/
+ http://www.qualitynano.eu/home/about-qnano.html
+ Running an open experiment - transparency and reproducibility in soil and ecosystem science :: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1748-9326/11/8/084004/meta
+ Research integrity: Don't let transparency damage science :: http://www.nature.com/news/research-integrity-don-t-let-transparency-damage-science-1.19219
+ High-impact journals: where newsworthiness trumps methodology, '__Sexy Science Vs. Reproducibility__' http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2013/03/15/high-impact-journals-where-newsworthiness-trumps-methodology/
+ Title: [A statistical definition for reproducibility and replicability](http://biorxiv.org/content/biorxiv/early/2016/07/29/066803.full.pdf), Authors: Prasad Patil, Roger D. Peng, Jeffrey T. Leek, 
+ The TOMS Initiative and Policies for Replicated Computational Results (RCR): http://toms.acm.org/replicated-computational-results.cfm
+ Muddled meanings hamper efforts to fix reproducibility crisis: http://www.nature.com/news/muddled-meanings-hamper-efforts-to-fix-reproducibility-crisis-1.20076
+ https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=12185964

## Papers
+ Reproducibility in Chemical Research : http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anie.201606591/pdf
+ http://www.nature.com/news/reality-check-on-reproducibility-1.19961
+ http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v532/n7598/full/532177d.html
+ http://www.nature.com/news/announcement-reducing-our-irreproducibility-1.12852


## Ten Simple Rules for Reproducible Computational Research
+ http://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003285
    * Rule 1: For Every Result, Keep Track of How It Was Produced
    * Rule 2: Avoid Manual Data Manipulation Steps
    * Rule 3: Archive the Exact Versions of All External Programs Used
    * Rule 4: Version Control All Custom Scripts
    * Rule 5: Record All Intermediate Results, When Possible in Standardized Formats
    * Rule 6: For Analyses That Include Randomness, Note Underlying Random Seeds
    * Rule 7: Always Store Raw Data behind Plots
    * Rule 8: Generate Hierarchical Analysis Output, Allowing Layers of Increasing Detail to Be Inspected
    * Rule 9: Connect Textual Statements to Underlying Results
    * Rule 10: Provide Public Access to Scripts, Runs, and Results

----

# OpenScience
+ https://home.scienceopen.com/
+ https://mitpress.mit.edu/sites/default/files/titles/content/openaccess/Suber_08_chap1.html
+ Publisher copyright policies & self-archiving : http://www.sherpa.ac.uk/romeo/index.php
+ [Why scientists must share their research code](http://www.nature.com/news/why-scientists-must-share-their-research-code-1.20504): 'Reproducibility editor' Victoria Stodden explains the growing movement to make code and data available to others.

### Papers
+ A study of institutional spending on open access publication fees in Germany: https://peerj.com/articles/2323/

----

# OpenData
+ http://www.opendatainception.io/
+ Research impact of paywalled versus open access papers :: http://www.1science.com/oanumbr.html
+ Hetionet in Neo4j, https://neo4j.het.io/browser/
+ http://www.pasteur4oa.eu/sites/pasteur4oa/files/resource/Scholarly%20Platforms%20Briefing%20Paper_FINAL.pdf
+ https://www.liberquarterly.eu/articles/10.18352/lq.10137/
+ [What Drives Academic Data Sharing?](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0118053), Benedikt Fecher, Sascha Friesike, Marcel Hebing, PLOS. Published: February 25, 2015. DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118053
+ http://www.nature.com/sdata/
+ Feb.2015, A Reputation Economy: Results from an Empirical Survey on Academic Data Sharing : http://www.ratswd.de/dl/RatSWD_WP_246.pdf
+ Examining Data Sharing and Data Reuse in the DataONE Environment, https://www.asis.org/asist2014/proceedings/submissions/posters/335poster.pdf
+ OECD 2015, “[Making Open Science a Reality](http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/5jrs2f963zs1-en)”, OECD Science, Technology and Industry Policy Papers, No. 25, OECD Publishing, Paris.
+ Shared Responsibilities in Sharing Research Data: Policies and Partnerships Report of an ESF-DFG workshop, Padua, 21 September 2007 : http://www.esf.org/fileadmin/Public_documents/Publications/SharingData_01.pdf
+ Reproducible Researchfor Scientific Computing:Tools and Strategiesfor Changing the Culture : http://www.bitss.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/reproducible-research-for-scientific-computing-tools-and-strategies-for-changing-the-culture3.pdf
+ [Data Sharing in Research : Four Key Concerns](https://erc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/content/pages/pdf/2.1 Sabina Leonelli.pdf)
+ Workshop on Research Data Management and Sharing, September 2014, ERC Executive Agency, Brussels, Abstracts of the presentations : https://erc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/content/pages/pdf/ERC_WS_on_RDMS_abstracts.pdf
+ DOI: 10.1056/NEJMe1516564, [Data Sharing](http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMe1516564), Dan L. Longo, M.D., and Jeffrey M. Drazen, M.D., N Engl J Med 2016; 374:276-277, 2016-January-21.
+ Roger D. Peng, [Reproducible research and Biostatistics](http://biostatistics.oxfordjournals.org/content/10/3/405.full.pdf+html), 2009.
+ http://www.thelancet.com/series/research
+ http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMe1515172
+ Reproducible Workflow: http://datasci.kitzes.com/lessons/python/reproducible_workflow.html
+ The Harvard Dataverse Network: http://library.harvard.edu/gdc

### Bad Science
+ The natural selection of bad science, https://arxiv.org/pdf/1605.09511v1.pdf
+ [Do That Again](http://www.the-scientist.com/?articles.view/articleNo/32486/title/Do-That-Again/): A new initiative offers gold stars to researchers willing to have their studies replicated by other labs, but will it fix science’s growing irreproducibility problem?
+ [A reproducibility crisis?](http://www.apa.org/monitor/2015/10/share-reproducibility.aspx), October 2015.
+ [Estimating the reproducibility of psychological science](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/349/6251/aac4716.full), Science, 28 Aug 2015, DOI: 10.1126/science.aac4716
+ Comment on [“Estimating the reproducibility of psychological science”](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/351/6277/1037.2?ijkey=53a3ef280e8e860dacda2f1eb83e165d80a41401&keytype2=tf_ipsecsha), by Daniel T. Gilbert1, Gary King, Stephen Pettigrew, Timothy D. Wilson, Science  04 Mar 2016, DOI: 10.1126/science.aad7243
+ Scandals, http://www.the-scientist.com/?articles.view/articleNo/33695/title/Top-Science-Scandals-of-2012/
+ Drug development: Raise standards for preclinical cancer research, http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v483/n7391/full/483531a.html
+ Bayer paper: http://www.nature.com/nrd/journal/v10/n9/full/nrd3439-c1.html

## DataScience
+ The key to building a data science portfolio : https://www.dataquest.io/blog/build-a-data-science-portfolio/

----

# OpenPub
+ A peer-reviewed publication path for software that is not necessarily scientifically novel. 
+ In statistics there is the Journal of Statistical Software.
+ In neuroscience/imaging there are things like the Insight Journal and the "Frontiers in..." imprints which have software-specific tracks.
+ [Computer Physics Communications](http://www.journals.elsevier.com/computer-physics-communications/) publishes a lot of articles and papers that are more intended to document free/open-source implementations than they are to describe novel algorithms. This is quite useful as a way to give people something to cite when they use your code, and also to obtain more traditional academic credit for free-software work.
+ Stata and R have their own journals: [Stata Journal](http://www.stata-journal.com/) and [R Journal](https://journal.r-project.org/). 
+ The [ActivePapers project](http://www.activepapers.org/) and paper: http://f1000research.com/articles/3-289/v3
+ For-Profit Journals Must End :: http://read.hipporeads.com/for-profit-journals-must-end/
+ Easy steps towards open scholarship :: http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2013/05/24/easy-steps-towards-open-scholarship 

----

# Quality
+ http://www.software.ac.uk/online-sustainability-evaluation
+ On the Failings of Qualitative Inquiry: https://au.sagepub.com/sites/default/files/upm-binaries/24799_02_Hammersley_Ch_01.pdf

## Data Quality
+ Gene name errors are widespread in the scientific literature : http://genomebiology.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13059-016-1044-7

----

# RDM 
+ Christian T. Jacobs and Alexandros Avdis: Git-RDM: A research data management plugin for the Git version control system.
http://joss.theoj.org/papers/10.21105/joss.00029
+ Contemporary Challenges for Data-Intensive Scientific Workflow Management Systems, http://www.switchproject.eu/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/uva-2.pdf

## DMP
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_management_plan
+ Guidelines on FAIR Data Management in Horizon 2020 : http://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/h2020/grants_manual/hi/oa_pilot/h2020-hi-oa-data-mgt_en.pdf


----

# Scientific Research
+ http://k4webcast.mediasite.com/Mediasite/Play/2bc15b283f324784a945d79d9a06c76c1d
+ 2016, Baker-Nature, http://doi.org/10.1038/533452a, http://www.nature.com/polopoly_fs/1.19970!/menu/main/topColumns/topLeftColumn/pdf/533452a.pdf
+ 2014, Wilson et. al., [Best Practices for Scientific Computing](http://www.plosbiology.org/article/fetchObject.action?uri=info:doi/10.1371/journal.pbio.1001745&representation=PDF).
+ https://pure.uvt.nl/portal/files/3053560/SP_Brandt_open_PoPS_2012.pdf
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reproducibility_Project
+ http://www.rug.nl/research/portal/files/13617856/derksenpresentation.pdf
+ Prof. Yolanda Gil, http://www.isi.edu/~gil/
    + http://www.isi.edu/~gil/publications.php
+ http://semantic-cora.org
+ http://semantic-cora.org/index.php/Publications_and_Talks
+ https://people.stanford.edu/gentzkow/sites/default/files/codeanddata.pdf

## Scientific Rules
+ Rules of good scientific practice, procedures, and penalties in the event of malpractice: https://www.humboldt-foundation.de/web/docs/F25752/rules_scientific_practice.pdf
+ https://www.google.de/search?q=Principles+of+good+Scientific+practice&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&gws_rd=cr&ei=KeM6V4zBJ6WfgAbu4LbQCQ

## SWMS - Scientific Workflow Management Systems
+ https://github.com/svaksha/aksh/blob/master/pub-o3srd/2015-mork-acm.pdf

----

# ORG
+ http://metrics.stanford.edu/research/reproducibility

### DB
+ http://db-reproducibility.seas.harvard.edu/papers/#SIGMOD2015

Commit message:

importance and the Complexities of Data Sharing

open-research.md, after:

+ [Resources](#resources)
+ [ARR](#arr)
+ [OpenScience](#openscience)
+ [OpenData](#opendata)
    + [DataScience](#datascience)
+ [OpenPub](#openpub)
+ [Quality](#quality)
    + [Data Quality](#data-quality)
+ [RDM](#rdm)
    + [DMP](#dmp)
+ [Scientific Research](#scientific-research)
+ [ORG](#org)
    + [DB](#db)

----

# Resources
+ http://cstheory.stackexchange.com/questions/1168/what-papers-should-everyone-read
+ https://github.com/firaswehbe/data-programming-resources/blob/master/openscience.md
+ https://erc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/content/pages/pdf/2.1%20Sabina%20Leonelli.pdf
+ statistical analysis, https://zedshaw.com/archive/a-rubric-for-it-analysis-papers/
+ https://www.google.de/search?q=infrastructure+for+analytical+reproducibility&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&gws_rd=cr&ei=GNp6V7e-CKqWgAatkYXYCQ
+ http://www.kdd.org/exploration_files/p1V11n1.pdf
+ https://scholar.google.de/scholar?oe=utf-8&gws_rd=cr&um=1&ie=UTF-8&lr&cites=11895311725021913820
+ http://www.nature.com/news/statisticians-issue-warning-over-misuse-of-p-values-1.19503
+ http://www.treesmapsandtheorems.com/
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PechaKucha
+ http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2016/09/12/how-proximity-and-trust-are-key-factors-in-getting-research-to-feed-into-policymaking/

----

# ARR
+ Reproducibility Project: Cancer Biology seeks participants to help evaluate #reproducibility: http://blogs.biomedcentral.com/bmcblog/2016/06/03/recruiting-participants-evaluate-reproducibility/
+ Blockchain : http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2016/07/21/could-blockchain-provide-the-technical-fix-to-solve-sciences-reproducibility-crisis/
+ http://www.nature.com/news/dutch-agency-launches-first-grants-programme-dedicated-to-replication-1.20287
+ http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v534/n7607/full/534326d.html
+ https://github.com/Reproducible-Science-Curriculum
+ A course on https://www.coursera.org/learn/reproducible-research
+ Gael's blog posts : 
    + 18 May 2015: http://gael-varoquaux.info/programming/software-for-reproducible-science-lets-not-have-a-misunderstanding.html
    + 28 November 2015: http://gael-varoquaux.info/programming/mloss-2015-wising-up-to-building-open-source-machine-learning.html
+ Prof. (Dr.) Titus Brown:
    + http://ivory.idyll.org/blog/2015-how-should-we-think-about-research-software.html
+ https://danielskatzblog.wordpress.com/2015/04/20/scientific-software-quality-versus-purpose/
+ http://www.qualitynano.eu/home/about-qnano.html
+ Running an open experiment - transparency and reproducibility in soil and ecosystem science :: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1748-9326/11/8/084004/meta
+ Research integrity: Don't let transparency damage science :: http://www.nature.com/news/research-integrity-don-t-let-transparency-damage-science-1.19219
+ High-impact journals: where newsworthiness trumps methodology, '__Sexy Science Vs. Reproducibility__' http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2013/03/15/high-impact-journals-where-newsworthiness-trumps-methodology/
+ Title: [A statistical definition for reproducibility and replicability](http://biorxiv.org/content/biorxiv/early/2016/07/29/066803.full.pdf), Authors: Prasad Patil, Roger D. Peng, Jeffrey T. Leek, 
+ The TOMS Initiative and Policies for Replicated Computational Results (RCR): http://toms.acm.org/replicated-computational-results.cfm
+ Muddled meanings hamper efforts to fix reproducibility crisis: http://www.nature.com/news/muddled-meanings-hamper-efforts-to-fix-reproducibility-crisis-1.20076
+ https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=12185964

## Papers
+ Reproducibility in Chemical Research : http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anie.201606591/pdf
+ http://www.nature.com/news/reality-check-on-reproducibility-1.19961
+ http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v532/n7598/full/532177d.html
+ http://www.nature.com/news/announcement-reducing-our-irreproducibility-1.12852


## Ten Simple Rules for Reproducible Computational Research
+ http://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003285
    * Rule 1: For Every Result, Keep Track of How It Was Produced
    * Rule 2: Avoid Manual Data Manipulation Steps
    * Rule 3: Archive the Exact Versions of All External Programs Used
    * Rule 4: Version Control All Custom Scripts
    * Rule 5: Record All Intermediate Results, When Possible in Standardized Formats
    * Rule 6: For Analyses That Include Randomness, Note Underlying Random Seeds
    * Rule 7: Always Store Raw Data behind Plots
    * Rule 8: Generate Hierarchical Analysis Output, Allowing Layers of Increasing Detail to Be Inspected
    * Rule 9: Connect Textual Statements to Underlying Results
    * Rule 10: Provide Public Access to Scripts, Runs, and Results

----

# OpenScience
+ https://home.scienceopen.com/
+ https://mitpress.mit.edu/sites/default/files/titles/content/openaccess/Suber_08_chap1.html
+ Publisher copyright policies & self-archiving : http://www.sherpa.ac.uk/romeo/index.php
+ [Why scientists must share their research code](http://www.nature.com/news/why-scientists-must-share-their-research-code-1.20504): 'Reproducibility editor' Victoria Stodden explains the growing movement to make code and data available to others.

### Papers
+ A study of institutional spending on open access publication fees in Germany: https://peerj.com/articles/2323/

----

# OpenData
+ http://www.opendatainception.io/
+ Research impact of paywalled versus open access papers :: http://www.1science.com/oanumbr.html
+ Hetionet in Neo4j, https://neo4j.het.io/browser/
+ http://www.pasteur4oa.eu/sites/pasteur4oa/files/resource/Scholarly%20Platforms%20Briefing%20Paper_FINAL.pdf
+ https://www.liberquarterly.eu/articles/10.18352/lq.10137/
+ [What Drives Academic Data Sharing?](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0118053), Benedikt Fecher, Sascha Friesike, Marcel Hebing, PLOS. Published: February 25, 2015. DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118053
+ http://www.nature.com/sdata/
+ Feb.2015, A Reputation Economy: Results from an Empirical Survey on Academic Data Sharing : http://www.ratswd.de/dl/RatSWD_WP_246.pdf
+ Examining Data Sharing and Data Reuse in the DataONE Environment, https://www.asis.org/asist2014/proceedings/submissions/posters/335poster.pdf
+ OECD 2015, “[Making Open Science a Reality](http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/5jrs2f963zs1-en)”, OECD Science, Technology and Industry Policy Papers, No. 25, OECD Publishing, Paris.
+ Shared Responsibilities in Sharing Research Data: Policies and Partnerships Report of an ESF-DFG workshop, Padua, 21 September 2007 : http://www.esf.org/fileadmin/Public_documents/Publications/SharingData_01.pdf
+ Reproducible Researchfor Scientific Computing:Tools and Strategiesfor Changing the Culture : http://www.bitss.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/reproducible-research-for-scientific-computing-tools-and-strategies-for-changing-the-culture3.pdf
+ [Data Sharing in Research : Four Key Concerns](https://erc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/content/pages/pdf/2.1 Sabina Leonelli.pdf)
+ Workshop on Research Data Management and Sharing, September 2014, ERC Executive Agency, Brussels, Abstracts of the presentations : https://erc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/content/pages/pdf/ERC_WS_on_RDMS_abstracts.pdf
+ DOI: 10.1056/NEJMe1516564, [Data Sharing](http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMe1516564), Dan L. Longo, M.D., and Jeffrey M. Drazen, M.D., N Engl J Med 2016; 374:276-277, 2016-January-21.
+ Roger D. Peng, [Reproducible research and Biostatistics](http://biostatistics.oxfordjournals.org/content/10/3/405.full.pdf+html), 2009.
+ http://www.thelancet.com/series/research
+ http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMe1515172
+ Reproducible Workflow: http://datasci.kitzes.com/lessons/python/reproducible_workflow.html
+ The Harvard Dataverse Network: http://library.harvard.edu/gdc
+ The Importance and the Complexities of Data Sharing, http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMe1611027#pq=v6nEwl

### Bad Science
+ The natural selection of bad science, https://arxiv.org/pdf/1605.09511v1.pdf
+ [Do That Again](http://www.the-scientist.com/?articles.view/articleNo/32486/title/Do-That-Again/): A new initiative offers gold stars to researchers willing to have their studies replicated by other labs, but will it fix science’s growing irreproducibility problem?
+ [A reproducibility crisis?](http://www.apa.org/monitor/2015/10/share-reproducibility.aspx), October 2015.
+ [Estimating the reproducibility of psychological science](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/349/6251/aac4716.full), Science, 28 Aug 2015, DOI: 10.1126/science.aac4716
+ Comment on [“Estimating the reproducibility of psychological science”](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/351/6277/1037.2?ijkey=53a3ef280e8e860dacda2f1eb83e165d80a41401&keytype2=tf_ipsecsha), by Daniel T. Gilbert1, Gary King, Stephen Pettigrew, Timothy D. Wilson, Science  04 Mar 2016, DOI: 10.1126/science.aad7243
+ Scandals, http://www.the-scientist.com/?articles.view/articleNo/33695/title/Top-Science-Scandals-of-2012/
+ Drug development: Raise standards for preclinical cancer research, http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v483/n7391/full/483531a.html
+ Bayer paper: http://www.nature.com/nrd/journal/v10/n9/full/nrd3439-c1.html

## DataScience
+ The key to building a data science portfolio : https://www.dataquest.io/blog/build-a-data-science-portfolio/

----

# OpenPub
+ A peer-reviewed publication path for software that is not necessarily scientifically novel. 
+ In statistics there is the Journal of Statistical Software.
+ In neuroscience/imaging there are things like the Insight Journal and the "Frontiers in..." imprints which have software-specific tracks.
+ [Computer Physics Communications](http://www.journals.elsevier.com/computer-physics-communications/) publishes a lot of articles and papers that are more intended to document free/open-source implementations than they are to describe novel algorithms. This is quite useful as a way to give people something to cite when they use your code, and also to obtain more traditional academic credit for free-software work.
+ Stata and R have their own journals: [Stata Journal](http://www.stata-journal.com/) and [R Journal](https://journal.r-project.org/). 
+ The [ActivePapers project](http://www.activepapers.org/) and paper: http://f1000research.com/articles/3-289/v3
+ For-Profit Journals Must End :: http://read.hipporeads.com/for-profit-journals-must-end/
+ Easy steps towards open scholarship :: http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2013/05/24/easy-steps-towards-open-scholarship 

----

# Quality
+ http://www.software.ac.uk/online-sustainability-evaluation
+ On the Failings of Qualitative Inquiry: https://au.sagepub.com/sites/default/files/upm-binaries/24799_02_Hammersley_Ch_01.pdf

## Data Quality
+ Gene name errors are widespread in the scientific literature : http://genomebiology.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13059-016-1044-7

----

# RDM 
+ Christian T. Jacobs and Alexandros Avdis: Git-RDM: A research data management plugin for the Git version control system.
http://joss.theoj.org/papers/10.21105/joss.00029
+ Contemporary Challenges for Data-Intensive Scientific Workflow Management Systems, http://www.switchproject.eu/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/uva-2.pdf

## DMP
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_management_plan
+ Guidelines on FAIR Data Management in Horizon 2020 : http://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/h2020/grants_manual/hi/oa_pilot/h2020-hi-oa-data-mgt_en.pdf


----

# Scientific Research
+ http://k4webcast.mediasite.com/Mediasite/Play/2bc15b283f324784a945d79d9a06c76c1d
+ 2016, Baker-Nature, http://doi.org/10.1038/533452a, http://www.nature.com/polopoly_fs/1.19970!/menu/main/topColumns/topLeftColumn/pdf/533452a.pdf
+ 2014, Wilson et. al., [Best Practices for Scientific Computing](http://www.plosbiology.org/article/fetchObject.action?uri=info:doi/10.1371/journal.pbio.1001745&representation=PDF).
+ https://pure.uvt.nl/portal/files/3053560/SP_Brandt_open_PoPS_2012.pdf
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reproducibility_Project
+ http://www.rug.nl/research/portal/files/13617856/derksenpresentation.pdf
+ Prof. Yolanda Gil, http://www.isi.edu/~gil/
    + http://www.isi.edu/~gil/publications.php
+ http://semantic-cora.org
+ http://semantic-cora.org/index.php/Publications_and_Talks
+ https://people.stanford.edu/gentzkow/sites/default/files/codeanddata.pdf

## Scientific Rules
+ Rules of good scientific practice, procedures, and penalties in the event of malpractice: https://www.humboldt-foundation.de/web/docs/F25752/rules_scientific_practice.pdf
+ https://www.google.de/search?q=Principles+of+good+Scientific+practice&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&gws_rd=cr&ei=KeM6V4zBJ6WfgAbu4LbQCQ

## SWMS - Scientific Workflow Management Systems
+ https://github.com/svaksha/aksh/blob/master/pub-o3srd/2015-mork-acm.pdf

----

# ORG
+ http://metrics.stanford.edu/research/reproducibility

### DB
+ http://db-reproducibility.seas.harvard.edu/papers/#SIGMOD2015
