pub-technology.md, before:

+ [OpenData](#opendata)
+ [OpenPub](#openpub)
+ [Scientific Research](#scientific-research)
+ [HELP](#help)

----

+ https://erc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/content/pages/pdf/2.1%20Sabina%20Leonelli.pdf
+ statistical analysis, https://zedshaw.com/archive/a-rubric-for-it-analysis-papers/

----

# OpenData

+ [What Drives Academic Data Sharing?](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0118053), Benedikt Fecher, Sascha Friesike, Marcel Hebing, PLOS. Published: February 25, 2015. DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118053
+ http://www.nature.com/sdata/
+ Feb.2015, A Reputation Economy: Results from an Empirical Survey on Academic Data Sharing : http://www.ratswd.de/dl/RatSWD_WP_246.pdf
+ Examining Data Sharing and Data Reuse in the DataONE Environment, https://www.asis.org/asist2014/proceedings/submissions/posters/335poster.pdf
+ OECD 2015, “[Making Open Science a Reality](http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/5jrs2f963zs1-en)”, OECD Science, Technology and Industry Policy Papers, No. 25, OECD Publishing, Paris.
+ Shared Responsibilities in Sharing Research Data: Policies and Partnerships Report of an ESF-DFG workshop, Padua, 21 September 2007 : http://www.esf.org/fileadmin/Public_documents/Publications/SharingData_01.pdf
+ Reproducible Researchfor Scientific Computing:Tools and Strategiesfor Changing the Culture : http://www.bitss.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/reproducible-research-for-scientific-computing-tools-and-strategies-for-changing-the-culture3.pdf
+ [Data Sharing in Research : Four Key Concerns](https://erc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/content/pages/pdf/2.1 Sabina Leonelli.pdf)
+ Workshop on Research Data Management and Sharing, September 2014, ERC Executive Agency, Brussels, Abstracts of the presentations : https://erc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/content/pages/pdf/ERC_WS_on_RDMS_abstracts.pdf
+ DOI: 10.1056/NEJMe1516564, [Data Sharing](http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMe1516564), Dan L. Longo, M.D., and Jeffrey M. Drazen, M.D., N Engl J Med 2016; 374:276-277, 2016-January-21.
+ Roger D. Peng, [Reproducible research and Biostatistics](http://biostatistics.oxfordjournals.org/content/10/3/405.full.pdf+html), 2009.
+ http://www.thelancet.com/series/research
+ http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMe1515172
+ Reproducible Workflow: http://datasci.kitzes.com/lessons/python/reproducible_workflow.html

### False data 
+ [Do That Again](http://www.the-scientist.com/?articles.view/articleNo/32486/title/Do-That-Again/): A new initiative offers gold stars to researchers willing to have their studies replicated by other labs, but will it fix science’s growing irreproducibility problem?
+ [A reproducibility crisis?](http://www.apa.org/monitor/2015/10/share-reproducibility.aspx), October 2015.
+ [Estimating the reproducibility of psychological science](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/349/6251/aac4716.full), Science, 28 Aug 2015, DOI: 10.1126/science.aac4716
+ Comment on [“Estimating the reproducibility of psychological science”](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/351/6277/1037.2?ijkey=53a3ef280e8e860dacda2f1eb83e165d80a41401&keytype2=tf_ipsecsha), by Daniel T. Gilbert1, Gary King, Stephen Pettigrew, Timothy D. Wilson, Science  04 Mar 2016, DOI: 10.1126/science.aad7243
+ Scandals, http://www.the-scientist.com/?articles.view/articleNo/33695/title/Top-Science-Scandals-of-2012/
+ Drug development: Raise standards for preclinical cancer research, http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v483/n7391/full/483531a.html
+ Bayer paper: http://www.nature.com/nrd/journal/v10/n9/full/nrd3439-c1.html

----

# OpenPub
+ A peer-reviewed publication path for software that is not necessarily scientifically novel. 
+ In statistics there is the Journal of Statistical Software.
+ In neuroscience/imaging there are things like the Insight Journal and the "Frontiers in..." imprints which have software-specific tracks.
+ [Computer Physics Communications](http://www.journals.elsevier.com/computer-physics-communications/) publishes a lot of articles and papers that are more intended to document free/open-source implementations than they are to describe novel algorithms. This is quite useful as a way to give people something to cite when they use your code, and also to obtain more traditional academic credit for free-software work.
+ Stata and R have their own journals: [Stata Journal](http://www.stata-journal.com/) and [R Journal](https://journal.r-project.org/). 
+ The ActivePapers project (http://www.activepapers.org/) and paper: http://f1000research.com/articles/3-289/v3

----

# Scientific Research
+ 2016, Baker-Nature, http://doi.org/10.1038/533452a, http://www.nature.com/polopoly_fs/1.19970!/menu/main/topColumns/topLeftColumn/pdf/533452a.pdf
+ 2014, Wilson et. al., [Best Practices for Scientific Computing](http://www.plosbiology.org/article/fetchObject.action?uri=info:doi/10.1371/journal.pbio.1001745&representation=PDF).
+ https://pure.uvt.nl/portal/files/3053560/SP_Brandt_open_PoPS_2012.pdf
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reproducibility_Project
+ http://www.rug.nl/research/portal/files/13617856/derksenpresentation.pdf
+ Prof. Yolanda Gil, http://www.isi.edu/~gil/
    + http://www.isi.edu/~gil/publications.php
+ http://semantic-cora.org
+ http://semantic-cora.org/index.php/Publications_and_Talks
+ https://people.stanford.edu/gentzkow/sites/default/files/codeanddata.pdf

## Scientific Rules
+ Rules of good scientific practice, procedures, and penalties in the event of malpractice: https://www.humboldt-foundation.de/web/docs/F25752/rules_scientific_practice.pdf
+ https://www.google.de/search?q=Principles+of+good+Scientific+practice&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&gws_rd=cr&ei=KeM6V4zBJ6WfgAbu4LbQCQ

----

# HELP
+ http://www.treesmapsandtheorems.com/
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PechaKucha

----

Commit message:

The natural selection of bad science

pub-technology.md, after:

+ [OpenData](#opendata)
+ [OpenPub](#openpub)
+ [Scientific Research](#scientific-research)
+ [HELP](#help)

----

+ https://erc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/content/pages/pdf/2.1%20Sabina%20Leonelli.pdf
+ statistical analysis, https://zedshaw.com/archive/a-rubric-for-it-analysis-papers/

----

# OpenData

+ [What Drives Academic Data Sharing?](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0118053), Benedikt Fecher, Sascha Friesike, Marcel Hebing, PLOS. Published: February 25, 2015. DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118053
+ http://www.nature.com/sdata/
+ Feb.2015, A Reputation Economy: Results from an Empirical Survey on Academic Data Sharing : http://www.ratswd.de/dl/RatSWD_WP_246.pdf
+ Examining Data Sharing and Data Reuse in the DataONE Environment, https://www.asis.org/asist2014/proceedings/submissions/posters/335poster.pdf
+ OECD 2015, “[Making Open Science a Reality](http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/5jrs2f963zs1-en)”, OECD Science, Technology and Industry Policy Papers, No. 25, OECD Publishing, Paris.
+ Shared Responsibilities in Sharing Research Data: Policies and Partnerships Report of an ESF-DFG workshop, Padua, 21 September 2007 : http://www.esf.org/fileadmin/Public_documents/Publications/SharingData_01.pdf
+ Reproducible Researchfor Scientific Computing:Tools and Strategiesfor Changing the Culture : http://www.bitss.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/reproducible-research-for-scientific-computing-tools-and-strategies-for-changing-the-culture3.pdf
+ [Data Sharing in Research : Four Key Concerns](https://erc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/content/pages/pdf/2.1 Sabina Leonelli.pdf)
+ Workshop on Research Data Management and Sharing, September 2014, ERC Executive Agency, Brussels, Abstracts of the presentations : https://erc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/content/pages/pdf/ERC_WS_on_RDMS_abstracts.pdf
+ DOI: 10.1056/NEJMe1516564, [Data Sharing](http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMe1516564), Dan L. Longo, M.D., and Jeffrey M. Drazen, M.D., N Engl J Med 2016; 374:276-277, 2016-January-21.
+ Roger D. Peng, [Reproducible research and Biostatistics](http://biostatistics.oxfordjournals.org/content/10/3/405.full.pdf+html), 2009.
+ http://www.thelancet.com/series/research
+ http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMe1515172
+ Reproducible Workflow: http://datasci.kitzes.com/lessons/python/reproducible_workflow.html

### Bad Science
+ The natural selection of bad science, https://arxiv.org/pdf/1605.09511v1.pdf
+ [Do That Again](http://www.the-scientist.com/?articles.view/articleNo/32486/title/Do-That-Again/): A new initiative offers gold stars to researchers willing to have their studies replicated by other labs, but will it fix science’s growing irreproducibility problem?
+ [A reproducibility crisis?](http://www.apa.org/monitor/2015/10/share-reproducibility.aspx), October 2015.
+ [Estimating the reproducibility of psychological science](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/349/6251/aac4716.full), Science, 28 Aug 2015, DOI: 10.1126/science.aac4716
+ Comment on [“Estimating the reproducibility of psychological science”](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/351/6277/1037.2?ijkey=53a3ef280e8e860dacda2f1eb83e165d80a41401&keytype2=tf_ipsecsha), by Daniel T. Gilbert1, Gary King, Stephen Pettigrew, Timothy D. Wilson, Science  04 Mar 2016, DOI: 10.1126/science.aad7243
+ Scandals, http://www.the-scientist.com/?articles.view/articleNo/33695/title/Top-Science-Scandals-of-2012/
+ Drug development: Raise standards for preclinical cancer research, http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v483/n7391/full/483531a.html
+ Bayer paper: http://www.nature.com/nrd/journal/v10/n9/full/nrd3439-c1.html

----

# OpenPub
+ A peer-reviewed publication path for software that is not necessarily scientifically novel. 
+ In statistics there is the Journal of Statistical Software.
+ In neuroscience/imaging there are things like the Insight Journal and the "Frontiers in..." imprints which have software-specific tracks.
+ [Computer Physics Communications](http://www.journals.elsevier.com/computer-physics-communications/) publishes a lot of articles and papers that are more intended to document free/open-source implementations than they are to describe novel algorithms. This is quite useful as a way to give people something to cite when they use your code, and also to obtain more traditional academic credit for free-software work.
+ Stata and R have their own journals: [Stata Journal](http://www.stata-journal.com/) and [R Journal](https://journal.r-project.org/). 
+ The ActivePapers project (http://www.activepapers.org/) and paper: http://f1000research.com/articles/3-289/v3

----

# Scientific Research
+ 2016, Baker-Nature, http://doi.org/10.1038/533452a, http://www.nature.com/polopoly_fs/1.19970!/menu/main/topColumns/topLeftColumn/pdf/533452a.pdf
+ 2014, Wilson et. al., [Best Practices for Scientific Computing](http://www.plosbiology.org/article/fetchObject.action?uri=info:doi/10.1371/journal.pbio.1001745&representation=PDF).
+ https://pure.uvt.nl/portal/files/3053560/SP_Brandt_open_PoPS_2012.pdf
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reproducibility_Project
+ http://www.rug.nl/research/portal/files/13617856/derksenpresentation.pdf
+ Prof. Yolanda Gil, http://www.isi.edu/~gil/
    + http://www.isi.edu/~gil/publications.php
+ http://semantic-cora.org
+ http://semantic-cora.org/index.php/Publications_and_Talks
+ https://people.stanford.edu/gentzkow/sites/default/files/codeanddata.pdf

## Scientific Rules
+ Rules of good scientific practice, procedures, and penalties in the event of malpractice: https://www.humboldt-foundation.de/web/docs/F25752/rules_scientific_practice.pdf
+ https://www.google.de/search?q=Principles+of+good+Scientific+practice&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&gws_rd=cr&ei=KeM6V4zBJ6WfgAbu4LbQCQ

----

# HELP
+ http://www.treesmapsandtheorems.com/
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PechaKucha

----
