tomography.md, before:

+ Doppler effect Redshift: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Redshift

# Tomography
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X-ray_computed_tomography
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tomography
+ The [tomographic reconstruction](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tomographic_reconstruction)
   + Paper: [Analytic and Iterative Reconstruction Algorithms in SPECT](Paper: jnm.snmjournals.org/content/43/10/1343.long) by Philippe P. Bruyant, PhD, 2002.
+ [Radon transform](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radon_transform) 
+ http://mathworld.wolfram.com/RadonTransform.html
+ Matlab’s image registration toolbox: http://www.mathworks.com/discovery/image-registration.html 

## CT Data
+ CT Images, https://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/visible/fresh_ct.html
   + https://mri.radiology.uiowa.edu/visible_human_datasets.html

## Fourier slice theorem
+ [FFT](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fast_Fourier_transform)
+ Filtered back projection: http://www.owlnet.rice.edu/~elec539/Projects97/cult/node2.html
+ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Projection-slice_theorem
+ http://oftankonyv.reak.bme.hu/tiki-index.php?page=The+Central+Slice+Theorem
+ Back Projection, http://www.snaggledworks.com/em_for_dummies/back_projection.html
+ Image reconstruction, http://depts.washington.edu/nucmed/IRL/pet_intro/intro_src/section4.html
+ Back projection – 2D points to 3D : http://chenlab.ece.cornell.edu/people/adarsh/publications/BackProjection.pdf


### TomoPy
+ https://github.com/tomopy/tomopy, [Docs](https://tomopy.readthedocs.org/)
+ Homepage: https://www1.aps.anl.gov/Science/Scientific-Software/TomoPy
+ Paper: http://scripts.iucr.org/cgi-bin/paper?S1600577514013939
   + PDF copy of [TomoPy: a framework for the analysis of synchrotron tomographic data](http://journals.iucr.org/s/issues/2014/05/00/pp5049/pp5049.pdf) Doga Gursoy, Francesco De Carlo, Xianghui Xiao and Chris Jacobsen.

Commit message:

paper on ISAR image reconstruction

tomography.md, after:

+ [Tomography](#tomography)
+ [PAPERS](#papers)

----

+ Doppler effect Redshift: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Redshift

# Tomography
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X-ray_computed_tomography
+ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tomography
+ [Radon transform](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radon_transform) 
+ http://mathworld.wolfram.com/RadonTransform.html
+ Matlab’s image registration toolbox: http://www.mathworks.com/discovery/image-registration.html 

## CT Data
+ CT Images, https://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/visible/fresh_ct.html
   + https://mri.radiology.uiowa.edu/visible_human_datasets.html

## Fourier slice theorem
+ [FFT](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fast_Fourier_transform)
+ Filtered back projection: http://www.owlnet.rice.edu/~elec539/Projects97/cult/node2.html
+ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Projection-slice_theorem
+ http://oftankonyv.reak.bme.hu/tiki-index.php?page=The+Central+Slice+Theorem
+ Back Projection, http://www.snaggledworks.com/em_for_dummies/back_projection.html
+ Image reconstruction, http://depts.washington.edu/nucmed/IRL/pet_intro/intro_src/section4.html
+ Back projection – 2D points to 3D : http://chenlab.ece.cornell.edu/people/adarsh/publications/BackProjection.pdf

### TomoPy
+ https://github.com/tomopy/tomopy, [Docs](https://tomopy.readthedocs.org/)
+ Homepage: https://www1.aps.anl.gov/Science/Scientific-Software/TomoPy
   
----

# PAPERS
+ Paper: http://scripts.iucr.org/cgi-bin/paper?S1600577514013939
   + PDF copy of [TomoPy: a framework for the analysis of synchrotron tomographic data](http://journals.iucr.org/s/issues/2014/05/00/pp5049/pp5049.pdf) Doga Gursoy, Francesco De Carlo, Xianghui Xiao and Chris Jacobsen.
+ The [tomographic reconstruction](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tomographic_reconstruction)
   + Paper: [Analytic and Iterative Reconstruction Algorithms in SPECT](Paper: jnm.snmjournals.org/content/43/10/1343.long) by Philippe P. Bruyant, PhD, 2002.
+ [2D and 3D ISAR image reconstruction through filtered back projection](http://www.researchgate.net/profile/Zhijun_Qiao/publication/258715731_2D_and_3D_ISAR_image_reconstruction_through_filtered_back_projection/links/00463537a7004e805c000000.pdf)
