Agam/ajna_write_paper.md, before:

+ [GUIDELINES](#guidelines)
+ [Read-PAPERS](#read-papers)
+ [RETRACTIONS](#retractions)
+ [REVIEWER](#reviewer)
+ [Write-PAPERS](#write-papers)
    + [Paper Structure](#paper-structure)
+ [Write-POSTER](#write-poster)    
+ [Write-THESIS](#write-thesis)

----

# GUIDELINES
__MLA or APA style?__
+ How to Format Your Research Paper : http://www.sciencebuddies.org/science-fair-projects/project_research_paper_format.shtml
+ GUIDELINES FOR AUTHORS OF SCIENTIFIC PAPERS: https://www.iccat.int/Documents/SCRS/Other/Guide_ColVol_ENG_2009.pdf
+ APA Writing Format: https://explorable.com/apa-writing-format
+ https://www.elen.ucl.ac.be/esann/index.php?pg=guidelines
+ DLIB guidelines, http://www.dlib.org/dlib/author-guidelines.html

----

# Read-PAPERS
+ [How to read a research paper](http://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~wgg/CSE210/howtoread.html).
+ [Advice on reading academic papers](http://www4.ncsu.edu/~akmassey/posts/2012-02-15-advice-on-reading-academic-papers.html)
+ [Some Thoughts on What it Takes to Produce a Good Ph.D. Thesis](https://engineering.purdue.edu/kak/HowToPhD.pdf).
+ http://openscienceasap.org/stream/2014/11/27/how-i-set-up-my-scientific-work-environment/#comment-946
+ [How to read an academic article](http://organizationsandmarkets.com/2010/08/31/how-to-read-an-academic-article/)?
+ [Jason Hong's collection of advice links](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~jasonh/advice.html)
+ [Should I Read Papers](http://michaelrbernste.in/2014/10/21/should-i-read-papers.html)?
+ [How to read and understand a scientific paper](http://violentmetaphors.com/2013/08/25/how-to-read-and-understand-a-scientific-paper-2/)
+ Getting started on your research reading : http://www.lib.uts.edu.au/sites/default/files/attachments/blog/Terry%20Royce%20Research%20Reading%20Presentation%20slides%20RW%202015.pdf

## Engineering Research Paper - Question–Answer Form

+ Title:
+ Name:
+ Authors:
+ Published in:
+ DOI, Date: 

### 1. Message
+ What is your take away message from this paper?)

### 2. Motivation
+ What is the motivation for this work (both people problem and technical problem), and its distillation into a research question? 
+ Why doesn’t the people problem have a trivial solution? 
+ What are the previous solutions and why are they inadequate?)

### 3. Hypothesis
+ What is the proposed solution (hypothesis, idea, design)? 
+ Why is it believed it will work? 
+ How does it represent an improvement? 
+ How is the solution achieved?

### 4. Author Evaluation
+ What is the author's evaluation of the solution? 
+ What logic, argument, evidence, artifacts (e.g., a proof-of-concept system), or experiments are presented in support of the idea?

### 5. Reader Analysis
+ What is your analysis of the identifed problem, idea and evaluation? 
+ Is this a good idea? What flaws do you perceive in the work? 
+ What are the most interesting or controversial ideas? For work that has practical implications, ask whether this will work, who would want it, what it will take to give it to them, and when might it become a reality?

### 6. Outcomes
+ What are the paper's contributions (author's and your opinion)? Ideas, methods, software, experimental results, experimental techniques...?

### 7. Future-Critiques
+ What are future directions for this research (author's and yours, perhaps driven by shortcomings or other critiques)?

### 8. Questions
+ What questions are you left with? 
+ What questions would you like to raise in an open discussion of the work (review interesting and controversial points, above)? + What do you find difficult to under stand? List as many as you can.

----


# RETRACTIONS
+ http://retractionwatch.com/help-us-heres-some-of-what-were-working-on/
+ http://retractionwatch.com/2016/08/06/weekend-reads-research-parasite-doubling-down-racism-in-the-lab-clinical-trial-insider-trading/

----

# REVIEWER
+ https://github.com/jtleek/reviews
+ 2009Mar, [How NOT to review a paper: the tools and techniques of the adversarial reviewer](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1519122), Graham Cormode, ACM SIGMOD Record.
+ 2008Mar, Mark Allman, “Thoughts on reviewing”, ACM SIGCOMM, Comput. Commun. Rev.
+ 2009Mar, Henning Schulzrinne, “Double-blind reviewing: more placebo than miracle cure?”, ACM SIGCOMM Comput. Commun.
+ 2009Apr, Thomas Anderson, “Conference reviewing considered harmful”, ACM SIGOPS Oper. Syst. Rev.
+ 2007Jul, Srinivasan Keshav, “How to read a paper”, CAM SIGCOMM Comput. Commun. Rev.
+ 1989Nov, Ian Parberry, “A guide for new referees in theoretical computer science”, ACM SIGACT News.
+ How2Review : http://web.mst.edu/~cetinkayae/htdpr_ekc.pdf
+ Reviewing Papers: http://eelcovisser.org/wiki/teaching/reviewing
+ http://retractionwatch.com/2016/07/25/from-annoying-to-bitter-here-are-the-six-types-of-peer-reviewers/
    + Full paper:  http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/02723638.2016.1190559
+ Literature Review: A Guide for Researchers, http://uws.au.libanswers.com/loader.php?fid=1332&type=1&key=3d48313481c8c29c97e3cdecba596d05

### Respond to Reviewers
+ [How not to respond to reviewers: Eight simple tips](http://blogs.nature.com/naturejobs/2016/08/19/how-not-to-respond-to-reviewers-eight-simple-tips/)

----

# Write-PAPERS
+ Hengl, T. and Gould, M., 2002. Rules of thumb for writing research articles, https://www.itc.nl/library/papers/hengl_rules.pdf
+ http://graduateresearcher.space/writing/writing-the-analysisdiscussion/
+ http://chronicle.com/article/My-Writing-Productivity/236712
+ https://twitter.com/WriteThatPhD
+ [GUIDELINES: HOW TO WRITE AN ACADEMIC PAPER](https://www.uni-marburg.de/fb10/iaa/institut/personal/birkle/MLA.pdf)
+ [Writing a research article: advice to beginners](http://intqhc.oxfordjournals.org/content/16/3/191).
+ [How to Write A Paper in Scientific Journal Style and Format](http://abacus.bates.edu/~ganderso/biology/resources/writing/HTWtoc.html).
+ 10-tips for writing for an [academic journal](http://www.theguardian.com/higher-education-network/blog/2013/sep/06/academic-journal-writing-top-tips).
+ How to structure the journal paper: http://writingajournalarticle.wordpress.com/structure/structure-the-paper/
+ Some excellent advice on research writing by @mnielsen : https://github.com/mnielsen/notes-on-writing/blob/master/notes_on_writing.md
+ http://academia.stackexchange.com/questions/71694/how-can-i-make-use-of-iterative-work-in-progress-versions-of-papers
+ How to Write Dissertation Proposals : http://writingcenter.tamu.edu/Students/Handouts-Guides/Media-Complete-A-V-Library/Guides-%28What-Are-You-Writing-%29/Video/Dissertation-Proposals
+ A Pragmatic Approach to Getting Published: 35 Tips for Early Career Researchers, http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fpls.2016.00610/full
+ Research Writing, Univ. of Sydney, http://www.lib.uts.edu.au/sites/default/files/attachments/page/Academic%20Writing%20Guide%20Part%204%20-%20Research%20Writing.pdf
+ http://www.gla.ac.uk/media/media_41223_en.pdf
+ http://graduateresearcher.space/degree-milestones/developing-the-research-proposal/
+ http://graduateresearcher.space/writing/writing-the-literature-review
+ How to turn real-world problems into researchable questions & why you must: https://au.sagepub.com/sites/default/files/upm-binaries/9806_039449ch02.pdf, from https://twitter.com/WriteThatPhD/status/759676731817164800
+ Writing the methodology/methods section: http://graduateresearcher.space/writing/writing-the-methodologymethods-section/
+ Top 10 hints for PhD Students or ECRs Publishing for the 1st Time:: http://www.itsnotyouitsyourdata.com/stuck-in-the-middle/top-10-hints-for-phd-students-or-ecrs-publishing-for-the-1st-time/
+ http://graduateresearcher.space/writing/writing-the-introduction-and-conclusion/
+ 9 + 1 hints for publishing a quantitative journal paper : http://www.itsnotyouitsyourdata.com/the-final-years/9-1-hints-for-publishing-a-quantitative-journal-paper/
+ http://www.fasttrackimpact.com/#!Who-will-benefit-from-your-research-and-who-will-block-it-How-to-identify-stakeholders-so-you-can-work-together-for-impact/hmlp3/56916c100cf2165f764377e7
+ Paragraph replanning: https://medium.com/advice-and-help-in-authoring-a-phd-or-non-fiction/what-is-paragraph-re-planning-c9a7e694d4ec#.pnvcfbxtl
+ Writers block, https://www.theguardian.com/higher-education-network/2014/dec/22/overcoming-writers-block-three-top-tips
+ https://core.ac.uk/download/files/343/11233054.pdf
+ Paper Sections : http://writers.stackexchange.com/questions/14516/can-section-headings-in-a-paper-be-questions
+ How to get your journal article to a publishable standard http://buff.ly/2cMq2Xy  (page 21) : http://www.drsq.org/issues/drq1-1.pdf 
+ Guidelines for writing a research paper for publication: https://www.liebertpub.com/media/pdf/English-Research-Article-Writing-Guide.pdf

## Paper Structure
### ABSTRACT
+ Short 150 word abstract describing the paper.

### KEYWORDS
+ List a few for easy tagging.

### INTRODUCTION
+ State why the problem you address is important
+ State what is lacking in the current knowledge
+ State the objectives of your study or the research question

### METHODS
+ Describe the context and setting of the study
+ Specify the study design
+ Describe the sampling strategy
+ Describe the intervention (if applicable)
+ Identify the main study variables
+ Describe data collection instruments and procedures
+ Outline analysis methods

### RESULTS
+ Report on data collection and recruitment (response rates, etc.)
+ Describe participants (demographic, research condition, etc.)
+ Present key findings with respect to the central research question.
+ Present secondary findings (secondary outcomes, subgroup analyses, etc.)
+ [Twelve Steps to Writing an Effective Results Section](http://www.sfedit.net/results.pdf)

### DISCUSSION
+ State the main findings of the study
+ Discuss the main results with reference to previous research
+ Discuss policy and practice implications of the results.
+ Analyse the strengths and limitations of the study. 
+ Offer perspectives for future work

### CONCLUSIONS
+ Include major findings followed by brief discussion on future perspectives and/or application of present work to other disciplines. 
+ Important: Do not rewrite the abstract. Statements with “Investigated” or “Studied” are not conclusions!

### ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
+ Remember to thank the funding agency if the research was supported by a grant, and the name of the funding body must be included.
+ Remember to thank colleagues/scientists/technicians who might have provided assistance and all important contributors should be acknowledged.
    + For example, persons who provided statistical or technical advice and assistance, incl. people who helped with the preparation of the manuscript.  

### CITATIONS-BIBLIOGRAPHY
+ State and cite whose work was referenced to.
+ The styles vary for different journals - some journals require complete titles of the cited references.
+ Please check for the accuracy of all citations.

### APPENDIX (optional)
+ Extra Information

----

# Write-POSTER
+ DESIGNING RESEARCH POSTERS : [How to make a clear and successful scientific poster](https://www.cmu.edu/gcc/handouts/Scientific Posters v2.pdf).


---- 

# Write-[THESIS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thesis)
+ https://www.theguardian.com/higher-education-network/blog/2014/aug/27/finishing-phd-thesis-top-tips-experts-advice
+ http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~sme/presentations/thesiswriting.pdf
+ Connecting the dots: writing a doctoral thesis by publication, https://digital.library.adelaide.edu.au/dspace/bitstream/2440/96163/2/hdl_96163.pdf
+ How not to write a PhD thesis : https://www.timeshighereducation.com/news/how-not-to-write-a-phd-thesis/410208.article
+ How to write a research proposal: http://newt.phys.unsw.edu.au/~jw/thesis.html
+ [The Dissertation or Thesis Writer’s Toolkit](http://academicladder.com/toolkit/download).
+ How to write a Ph.D. thesis: https://www.uni-goettingen.de/en/138976.html
+ The key to a successful PhD thesis? Write in your own voice, https://www.theguardian.com/higher-education-network/blog/2014/aug/20/write-in-your-own-voice-key-to-successful-phd-thesis
+ Guidelines for Writing Your Dissertation: http://visual-memory.co.uk/daniel/Modules/dissertation.html
+ Gavin Moodie, RMIT, Surviving your PhD: http://www.academia.edu/359676/Surviving_your_PhD (Needs login for download)

### [starting the PhD – write and write regularly](https://patthomson.net/2016/09/19/starting-the-phd-write-and-write-regularly/)

The PhD is not only about the actual research that you do. It is also about your capacity to:

+    explain why your research is necessary
+    show how your inquiry fits with and builds on existing research
+    clearly state and justify what you did, when, with whom or what, in what order, how long it took and what happened as a result
+    say what your results mean, and how they add to what we already know, or challenge it, and what should happen as a result.

So you need to be able to adequately deal with other people’s work as well as the big ideas that are pertinent to your particular topic. You need to be able to make your own argument in a persuasive way. Dealing with these requirements means that you need to be, at the very least, a competent writer. 

People may say to you when they know you’re doing a PhD, “It’s never too soon to start to write”. Do listen – it’s absolutely good advice. You see, in order to write well, you need to practice. Writing is something that you now need to do regularly, and often. 

And by writing I don’t just mean taking notes of your reading – although you will of course need to make summaries and put together pieces of text synthesising your reading.  I mean writing regularly, each day, about something strongly related to your research.

This could be for example:

+    writing about something that puzzles you
+    writing about how a particular reading relates to your topic
+    responding to a small quotation – writing about what it made you think about
+    exploring a particular possible idea for a research design
+    developing an argument about an aspect of your research – the choice of method for example, writing about why it is a good choice and/or why it might not be
+    writing about a talk that you’ve heard
+    recording a research related conversation you’ve had with a peer
+    thinking/writing about what you might want to talk to your supervisor about
+    experimenting with different writing ‘voices’ and styles
+    trying out draft paragraphs, introductions, abstracts
+    writing descriptive pieces, where you work on the ways in which you might provide rich detail about your work
+    practising how to incorporate dialogue into an argumentative text
+    writing to learn to craft anecdotes and vignettes.

__This writing is not intended initially for anyone but you. There is no pressure on you to make it perfect. The idea is simply to write and think about your topic, and also to write and think about the craft of writing itself.__

Setting up a regular pattern of writing, for about thirty minutes or so, is a good idea – the time can of course be longer.  It may vary in duration depending on what else is going on and what the task demands. Write as often as you can at the same time and in the same place each day. You might like to set yourself a timer or a word target – these are support mechanisms designed to help you stick to writing, not the end point. 

Just sitting down each day will get you a writing habit that will help you enormously throughout the PhD.

You can do this kind of writing on screen or in a notebook, or a combination of the two, whatever works for you. You might even blog. But a key to sustaining your writing habit is to vary the focus of the writing, but keeping the regular time devoted to research-focussed writing sacrosanct.

Practice makes practice, as we say in teaching, and this is the case for writing too.

----

Commit message:

How to write well & get published

Agam/ajna_write_paper.md, after:

+ [GUIDELINES](#guidelines)
+ [Read-PAPERS](#read-papers)
+ [RETRACTIONS](#retractions)
+ [REVIEWER](#reviewer)
+ [Write-PAPERS](#write-papers)
    + [Paper Structure](#paper-structure)
+ [Write-POSTER](#write-poster)    
+ [Write-THESIS](#write-thesis)

----

# GUIDELINES
__MLA or APA style?__
+ How to Format Your Research Paper : http://www.sciencebuddies.org/science-fair-projects/project_research_paper_format.shtml
+ GUIDELINES FOR AUTHORS OF SCIENTIFIC PAPERS: https://www.iccat.int/Documents/SCRS/Other/Guide_ColVol_ENG_2009.pdf
+ APA Writing Format: https://explorable.com/apa-writing-format
+ https://www.elen.ucl.ac.be/esann/index.php?pg=guidelines
+ DLIB guidelines, http://www.dlib.org/dlib/author-guidelines.html

----

# Read-PAPERS
+ [How to read a research paper](http://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~wgg/CSE210/howtoread.html).
+ [Advice on reading academic papers](http://www4.ncsu.edu/~akmassey/posts/2012-02-15-advice-on-reading-academic-papers.html)
+ [Some Thoughts on What it Takes to Produce a Good Ph.D. Thesis](https://engineering.purdue.edu/kak/HowToPhD.pdf).
+ http://openscienceasap.org/stream/2014/11/27/how-i-set-up-my-scientific-work-environment/#comment-946
+ [How to read an academic article](http://organizationsandmarkets.com/2010/08/31/how-to-read-an-academic-article/)?
+ [Jason Hong's collection of advice links](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~jasonh/advice.html)
+ [Should I Read Papers](http://michaelrbernste.in/2014/10/21/should-i-read-papers.html)?
+ [How to read and understand a scientific paper](http://violentmetaphors.com/2013/08/25/how-to-read-and-understand-a-scientific-paper-2/)
+ Getting started on your research reading : http://www.lib.uts.edu.au/sites/default/files/attachments/blog/Terry%20Royce%20Research%20Reading%20Presentation%20slides%20RW%202015.pdf

## Engineering Research Paper - Question–Answer Form

+ Title:
+ Name:
+ Authors:
+ Published in:
+ DOI, Date: 

### 1. Message
+ What is your take away message from this paper?)

### 2. Motivation
+ What is the motivation for this work (both people problem and technical problem), and its distillation into a research question? 
+ Why doesn’t the people problem have a trivial solution? 
+ What are the previous solutions and why are they inadequate?)

### 3. Hypothesis
+ What is the proposed solution (hypothesis, idea, design)? 
+ Why is it believed it will work? 
+ How does it represent an improvement? 
+ How is the solution achieved?

### 4. Author Evaluation
+ What is the author's evaluation of the solution? 
+ What logic, argument, evidence, artifacts (e.g., a proof-of-concept system), or experiments are presented in support of the idea?

### 5. Reader Analysis
+ What is your analysis of the identifed problem, idea and evaluation? 
+ Is this a good idea? What flaws do you perceive in the work? 
+ What are the most interesting or controversial ideas? For work that has practical implications, ask whether this will work, who would want it, what it will take to give it to them, and when might it become a reality?

### 6. Outcomes
+ What are the paper's contributions (author's and your opinion)? Ideas, methods, software, experimental results, experimental techniques...?

### 7. Future-Critiques
+ What are future directions for this research (author's and yours, perhaps driven by shortcomings or other critiques)?

### 8. Questions
+ What questions are you left with? 
+ What questions would you like to raise in an open discussion of the work (review interesting and controversial points, above)? + What do you find difficult to under stand? List as many as you can.

----


# RETRACTIONS
+ http://retractionwatch.com/help-us-heres-some-of-what-were-working-on/
+ http://retractionwatch.com/2016/08/06/weekend-reads-research-parasite-doubling-down-racism-in-the-lab-clinical-trial-insider-trading/

----

# REVIEWER
+ https://github.com/jtleek/reviews
+ 2009Mar, [How NOT to review a paper: the tools and techniques of the adversarial reviewer](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1519122), Graham Cormode, ACM SIGMOD Record.
+ 2008Mar, Mark Allman, “Thoughts on reviewing”, ACM SIGCOMM, Comput. Commun. Rev.
+ 2009Mar, Henning Schulzrinne, “Double-blind reviewing: more placebo than miracle cure?”, ACM SIGCOMM Comput. Commun.
+ 2009Apr, Thomas Anderson, “Conference reviewing considered harmful”, ACM SIGOPS Oper. Syst. Rev.
+ 2007Jul, Srinivasan Keshav, “How to read a paper”, CAM SIGCOMM Comput. Commun. Rev.
+ 1989Nov, Ian Parberry, “A guide for new referees in theoretical computer science”, ACM SIGACT News.
+ How2Review : http://web.mst.edu/~cetinkayae/htdpr_ekc.pdf
+ Reviewing Papers: http://eelcovisser.org/wiki/teaching/reviewing
+ http://retractionwatch.com/2016/07/25/from-annoying-to-bitter-here-are-the-six-types-of-peer-reviewers/
    + Full paper:  http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/02723638.2016.1190559
+ Literature Review: A Guide for Researchers, http://uws.au.libanswers.com/loader.php?fid=1332&type=1&key=3d48313481c8c29c97e3cdecba596d05

### Respond to Reviewers
+ [How not to respond to reviewers: Eight simple tips](http://blogs.nature.com/naturejobs/2016/08/19/how-not-to-respond-to-reviewers-eight-simple-tips/)

----

# Write-PAPERS
+ Hengl, T. and Gould, M., 2002. Rules of thumb for writing research articles, https://www.itc.nl/library/papers/hengl_rules.pdf
+ http://graduateresearcher.space/writing/writing-the-analysisdiscussion/
+ http://chronicle.com/article/My-Writing-Productivity/236712
+ https://twitter.com/WriteThatPhD
+ [GUIDELINES: HOW TO WRITE AN ACADEMIC PAPER](https://www.uni-marburg.de/fb10/iaa/institut/personal/birkle/MLA.pdf)
+ [Writing a research article: advice to beginners](http://intqhc.oxfordjournals.org/content/16/3/191).
+ [How to Write A Paper in Scientific Journal Style and Format](http://abacus.bates.edu/~ganderso/biology/resources/writing/HTWtoc.html).
+ 10-tips for writing for an [academic journal](http://www.theguardian.com/higher-education-network/blog/2013/sep/06/academic-journal-writing-top-tips).
+ How to structure the journal paper: http://writingajournalarticle.wordpress.com/structure/structure-the-paper/
+ Some excellent advice on research writing by @mnielsen : https://github.com/mnielsen/notes-on-writing/blob/master/notes_on_writing.md
+ http://academia.stackexchange.com/questions/71694/how-can-i-make-use-of-iterative-work-in-progress-versions-of-papers
+ How to Write Dissertation Proposals : http://writingcenter.tamu.edu/Students/Handouts-Guides/Media-Complete-A-V-Library/Guides-%28What-Are-You-Writing-%29/Video/Dissertation-Proposals
+ A Pragmatic Approach to Getting Published: 35 Tips for Early Career Researchers, http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fpls.2016.00610/full
+ Research Writing, Univ. of Sydney, http://www.lib.uts.edu.au/sites/default/files/attachments/page/Academic%20Writing%20Guide%20Part%204%20-%20Research%20Writing.pdf
+ http://www.gla.ac.uk/media/media_41223_en.pdf
+ http://graduateresearcher.space/degree-milestones/developing-the-research-proposal/
+ http://graduateresearcher.space/writing/writing-the-literature-review
+ How to turn real-world problems into researchable questions & why you must: https://au.sagepub.com/sites/default/files/upm-binaries/9806_039449ch02.pdf, from https://twitter.com/WriteThatPhD/status/759676731817164800
+ Writing the methodology/methods section: http://graduateresearcher.space/writing/writing-the-methodologymethods-section/
+ Top 10 hints for PhD Students or ECRs Publishing for the 1st Time:: http://www.itsnotyouitsyourdata.com/stuck-in-the-middle/top-10-hints-for-phd-students-or-ecrs-publishing-for-the-1st-time/
+ http://graduateresearcher.space/writing/writing-the-introduction-and-conclusion/
+ 9 + 1 hints for publishing a quantitative journal paper : http://www.itsnotyouitsyourdata.com/the-final-years/9-1-hints-for-publishing-a-quantitative-journal-paper/
+ http://www.fasttrackimpact.com/#!Who-will-benefit-from-your-research-and-who-will-block-it-How-to-identify-stakeholders-so-you-can-work-together-for-impact/hmlp3/56916c100cf2165f764377e7
+ Paragraph replanning: https://medium.com/advice-and-help-in-authoring-a-phd-or-non-fiction/what-is-paragraph-re-planning-c9a7e694d4ec#.pnvcfbxtl
+ Writers block, https://www.theguardian.com/higher-education-network/2014/dec/22/overcoming-writers-block-three-top-tips
+ https://core.ac.uk/download/files/343/11233054.pdf
+ Paper Sections : http://writers.stackexchange.com/questions/14516/can-section-headings-in-a-paper-be-questions
+ How to get your journal article to a publishable standard http://buff.ly/2cMq2Xy  (page 21) : http://www.drsq.org/issues/drq1-1.pdf 
+ Guidelines for writing a research paper for publication: https://www.liebertpub.com/media/pdf/English-Research-Article-Writing-Guide.pdf
+ How to write well & get published: tips for early career academics, http://mams.rmit.edu.au/ryl0wql50c8q.pdf


## Paper Structure
### ABSTRACT
+ Short 150 word abstract describing the paper.

### KEYWORDS
+ List a few for easy tagging.

### INTRODUCTION
+ State why the problem you address is important
+ State what is lacking in the current knowledge
+ State the objectives of your study or the research question

### METHODS
+ Describe the context and setting of the study
+ Specify the study design
+ Describe the sampling strategy
+ Describe the intervention (if applicable)
+ Identify the main study variables
+ Describe data collection instruments and procedures
+ Outline analysis methods

### RESULTS
+ Report on data collection and recruitment (response rates, etc.)
+ Describe participants (demographic, research condition, etc.)
+ Present key findings with respect to the central research question.
+ Present secondary findings (secondary outcomes, subgroup analyses, etc.)
+ [Twelve Steps to Writing an Effective Results Section](http://www.sfedit.net/results.pdf)

### DISCUSSION
+ State the main findings of the study
+ Discuss the main results with reference to previous research
+ Discuss policy and practice implications of the results.
+ Analyse the strengths and limitations of the study. 
+ Offer perspectives for future work

### CONCLUSIONS
+ Include major findings followed by brief discussion on future perspectives and/or application of present work to other disciplines. 
+ Important: Do not rewrite the abstract. Statements with “Investigated” or “Studied” are not conclusions!

### ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
+ Remember to thank the funding agency if the research was supported by a grant, and the name of the funding body must be included.
+ Remember to thank colleagues/scientists/technicians who might have provided assistance and all important contributors should be acknowledged.
    + For example, persons who provided statistical or technical advice and assistance, incl. people who helped with the preparation of the manuscript.  

### CITATIONS-BIBLIOGRAPHY
+ State and cite whose work was referenced to.
+ The styles vary for different journals - some journals require complete titles of the cited references.
+ Please check for the accuracy of all citations.

### APPENDIX (optional)
+ Extra Information

----

# Write-POSTER
+ DESIGNING RESEARCH POSTERS : [How to make a clear and successful scientific poster](https://www.cmu.edu/gcc/handouts/Scientific Posters v2.pdf).


---- 

# Write-[THESIS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thesis)
+ https://www.theguardian.com/higher-education-network/blog/2014/aug/27/finishing-phd-thesis-top-tips-experts-advice
+ http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~sme/presentations/thesiswriting.pdf
+ Connecting the dots: writing a doctoral thesis by publication, https://digital.library.adelaide.edu.au/dspace/bitstream/2440/96163/2/hdl_96163.pdf
+ How not to write a PhD thesis : https://www.timeshighereducation.com/news/how-not-to-write-a-phd-thesis/410208.article
+ How to write a research proposal: http://newt.phys.unsw.edu.au/~jw/thesis.html
+ [The Dissertation or Thesis Writer’s Toolkit](http://academicladder.com/toolkit/download).
+ How to write a Ph.D. thesis: https://www.uni-goettingen.de/en/138976.html
+ The key to a successful PhD thesis? Write in your own voice, https://www.theguardian.com/higher-education-network/blog/2014/aug/20/write-in-your-own-voice-key-to-successful-phd-thesis
+ Guidelines for Writing Your Dissertation: http://visual-memory.co.uk/daniel/Modules/dissertation.html
+ Gavin Moodie, RMIT, Surviving your PhD: http://www.academia.edu/359676/Surviving_your_PhD (Needs login for download)

### [starting the PhD – write and write regularly](https://patthomson.net/2016/09/19/starting-the-phd-write-and-write-regularly/)

The PhD is not only about the actual research that you do. It is also about your capacity to:

+    explain why your research is necessary
+    show how your inquiry fits with and builds on existing research
+    clearly state and justify what you did, when, with whom or what, in what order, how long it took and what happened as a result
+    say what your results mean, and how they add to what we already know, or challenge it, and what should happen as a result.

So you need to be able to adequately deal with other people’s work as well as the big ideas that are pertinent to your particular topic. You need to be able to make your own argument in a persuasive way. Dealing with these requirements means that you need to be, at the very least, a competent writer. 

People may say to you when they know you’re doing a PhD, “It’s never too soon to start to write”. Do listen – it’s absolutely good advice. You see, in order to write well, you need to practice. Writing is something that you now need to do regularly, and often. 

And by writing I don’t just mean taking notes of your reading – although you will of course need to make summaries and put together pieces of text synthesising your reading.  I mean writing regularly, each day, about something strongly related to your research.

This could be for example:

+    writing about something that puzzles you
+    writing about how a particular reading relates to your topic
+    responding to a small quotation – writing about what it made you think about
+    exploring a particular possible idea for a research design
+    developing an argument about an aspect of your research – the choice of method for example, writing about why it is a good choice and/or why it might not be
+    writing about a talk that you’ve heard
+    recording a research related conversation you’ve had with a peer
+    thinking/writing about what you might want to talk to your supervisor about
+    experimenting with different writing ‘voices’ and styles
+    trying out draft paragraphs, introductions, abstracts
+    writing descriptive pieces, where you work on the ways in which you might provide rich detail about your work
+    practising how to incorporate dialogue into an argumentative text
+    writing to learn to craft anecdotes and vignettes.

__This writing is not intended initially for anyone but you. There is no pressure on you to make it perfect. The idea is simply to write and think about your topic, and also to write and think about the craft of writing itself.__

Setting up a regular pattern of writing, for about thirty minutes or so, is a good idea – the time can of course be longer.  It may vary in duration depending on what else is going on and what the task demands. Write as often as you can at the same time and in the same place each day. You might like to set yourself a timer or a word target – these are support mechanisms designed to help you stick to writing, not the end point. 

Just sitting down each day will get you a writing habit that will help you enormously throughout the PhD.

You can do this kind of writing on screen or in a notebook, or a combination of the two, whatever works for you. You might even blog. But a key to sustaining your writing habit is to vary the focus of the writing, but keeping the regular time devoted to research-focussed writing sacrosanct.

Practice makes practice, as we say in teaching, and this is the case for writing too.

----
