# May 10, 2017

# 11:00 - 11:15 Conference opening and welcome addresses
1. Barbara Hartung (Lower Saxony Ministry of Science and Culture, Germany)
2. Irina Sens (Interim Director of the Technische Informationsbibliothek [TIB] – German National Library of Science and Technology, Germany)
3. Wolfgang Nejdl (Founding Director and Head of the L3S Research Center / University of Hanover, Germany)

# 11:15 - 12:00 Keynote: [Incentives and rewards in scientific software communities](https://events.tib.eu/nontextualinformation2017/programme/lecture/keynote-incentives-and-rewards-in-scientific-software-communities/), Edzer Pebesma (University of Münster, Germany)
+ co-PI in the dfg [Opening Reproducible Research](http://o2r.info)
+ Most cited papers are not describing discoveries or scientific-breakthroughs.
    + papers describe  methods or tools.
    + software tools that do things.
+ R is statistics-oriented programming environment.
+ Package dependencies
    + packages depend on each other.
+ Reproducibility in R : data + R
+ O2R: 
    + uses docker containers - can data be encapsulated in docker. 
    + can libs offer services for ERCs
+ R and CRAN, R consortium, Rladies, satuRdays.
+ has a lib for referencing citations package with default citation entry 


# 12:00 - 13:00 Session 1: Strategy and general conditions, Moderator: Thomas Risse (L3S Research Center, Germany)
# 12:00 - 12:30 [What is good scientific practice for research software? Konrad U. Förstner](https://www.gesetze-im-internet.de/englisch_urhg/englisch_urhg.html), (University of Würzburg / Allianz Initiative: Ad-hoc AG Wissenschaftliche Software, Germany)
+ scence has a strong and growing dependency of research on software.
+ quality, accessibility, citabiity has to be ensured.
+ in-house script is the term used for closed chemicals or software.
+ Paper: cluster failure
+ Lack of... 
    + awareness
    + skills
    + time
    + incentives
    + dedicated long-term funding
    + No reviewing
    + no source code to hinder competitors.
+ Several new initiatives: 
    + software carpentry
    + software sustainability initiative
    + WSSPE
    + FSFE
    + DANS
    + sciforge
    + DFG program - research software sustainability
    + helmholtz association task force
    + de-RSE, de-rse.org
    + and more...
+ In 2008, digital initiative called the Alliance of Science Org , DE
+ since 2016, adhoc working group called 'Research Software'
    + compile recommendations and carry it to the research orgs.
+ Good Scientific Practice?
    + reproducibility
    + confirmability
    + transparency
+ working model: small tools for single purpose, software applications for specific research output, infrastructure and online services.
+ exact needs differ between communities
+ DFG requires 10-year access requirement.
+ Working group will raise awareness for research software
+ Standards for GSP
+ quality control
+ enable citable systems for software
+ education of computational skills in scientific communits
+ new open career path: Research Data scientist
+ Licensing
+ Long-term funding for research software.
+ www.allianzinitiative.de
+ QA : Important things that have to be solved - 1. more funding for research, getting it to decision makers, education.
    + institutional repositaries at a higher level
    + univ must have permanent position
    + Funding Vs. crowdfunding Vs. permanent positions.


# 12:30 - 13:00 Legal requirements for software sharing and collaboration, Nikolaus Forgó (Leibniz Universität Hannover, Germany)
1. https://www.gesetze-im-internet.de/englisch_urhg/englisch_urhg.html
2. Copyright Act
    + Author is protected 
    + copyright deals with computer programs as a literary work.
    + lasts 70 years after author dies.
    + lot of the software is joint authored, collaborated. Everything needs to be undertaken jointly. 
    + Joint author cannot refuse under 'contrary to good faith', depends on case-to-case basis.
    + Reluctant to sue (cost of IP lawyer is 305 per hour) 
    + Important to not ignore licensing agreement to avoid exploitation.
    + FOSS licenses are complicated and contradictary. 
    + Many law students are looking for programmers - in return for legal advice. Bring them together. Explaining tech to judges is harder.
3. 69A/B/69C sections deals with computer programs.
    + 69B says if software is programmed within a University then the programmer cannot ask but the University (employer). Only the employer can exercise licensing issues. 
    + Take care that your employer knows and allows foss licensing in writing as an agreement.
    + Ask employer to agree with legalese.
4. QA: 
    + each employee must agree. In UK uni, each contract has this licensing agreement.
    + hammer does not become a nail. Dependency librarys fall in the Compounded copyright area.
    + SaaS under copyright? Licensing is a part of copyright. Things are complex when there are 2-3 partners. Who is liable for, say, an app on google store? 
    + which law is applicable when software is distributed all over the world? It depends on the country the violation occurs, case is filed. 
  

# 14:00 - 15:00 Session 2: Sustainable software infrastructure, Moderator: Jasmin Schmitz (ZB MED – Information Centre for Life Sciences, Germany)
# 14:00 - 14:30 Managing research software from the perspective of a scientific infrastructure provider, Timo Borst (German National Library of Economics (ZBW), Germany)
1. Research software : third pillar of OpenScience
    + Open access + open data + open science
2. Research software Vs. Infrastructure development
2. RSS - Research software sustainability
    + standardisation
    + maintaining Research S/w
3. Monitoring research software 
    + key findings were published in academic papers
4. conclusions: monitoring helps infrastructure orgs track metrics (usage, citations, etc..).


# 14:30 - 15:00 Solid scenario’s for sustainable software, Patrick J. C. Aerts (Data Archiving and Networked Services (DANS) / Netherlands eScience Center, Netherlands)
1. Stakeholder analysis
    + executive services
    + general framework 
    + sustainable plans
2. Software sustainability and data must be treated equally. Treat them as valid objects to encourage others to fund it and finally make stakeholder positions explicit.
3. Cross- domain issues on S/w sustainability
    + legislation mandates 10 yr archive.
    + obsolete or unavailable hardware
    + bit rot, link rot  or citation rot
4. Past legacy code.
5. European software sustainability infra.
6. Domain defined SoSu protocols
    + universities dont need seperate DMP templates 
    + RDMP can be discipline specific
    + set minimum conditions and provide support
    + engage the sciejce community.
7. S/w Sustainability protocols
8. publish the protocol for later refernce for others
9. EuSSI : search it
10. no impact analysis tools for software and data. 
    + apply FAIR to data and software. 
11. SSoA : software seal of approval - will not go into the technical details of implementation
12. QA: 
    + telemetry service system for software.

# 15:45 - 17:15 Session 3: Persistent software referencing, Moderator: Ralph Ewerth (Technische Informationsbibliothek (TIB) – German National Library of Science and Technology, Germany)
# 15:45 - 16:15 Software citation: a cornerstone of software-enabled research, Daniel S. Katz (University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, USA)
1. software is not a one-time effort, it must be sustained
2. computational science research : knowledge - published software is different from the original aquired software
3. how to measure software citation system : identify and measure citations
4. software citation: credits, unique id, persistence, specificity (specific version of software being used)
5. what to cite : cite products as they cite papers. Provide references only for specialized software libraries that was used as part of core research.
6. Provenance / reproducibility > citation requirements
6. Citation : software important for research. cite the software itself, not just the paper.
7. Unique identification: use DOI , not a url to github
8. RRID from Force11
9. create a CITATION file and put it in the readme.
10. software citation vs paper citation.
11. software citation working group. sign up on the new force11 group page.
12. JOSS - journal of open source software
13. QA: How often should software development get a DOI? feature changes, signicicant changes


# 16:15 - 16:45 Workflows for assigning and tracking DOIs for scientific software, Martin Fenner (DataCite, Germany)
+ use github to publish code
+ do testing and code review
+ needed for sci.software : metadata, documentation information and data.
+ zenodo DOIs for software
+ what is scientific software?
* bolognese - data citation lib in ruby
* Force11 - conf in november 2017
+ codemeta project


# 16:45 - 17:15 Software as a first-class citizen in web archives, Helge Holzmann (L3S Research Center, Germany) 
+ web archives (internet archive) big files stored in a WARC format 
+ URIs are based on timestamps but no logical semantic order.
+ archiving software without licences is not legal
+ ToDo : micro archives, referencing micro archives by doi handle 
* mining meta data from these archives
+ 50% of software websites are archived -  many sites include documentation and artifacts.


