# https://www.rd-alliance.org/ig-active-data-management-plans-rda-9th-plenary-meeting 
+ time: 09:30 - 11:00

#### Links
+ http://github.com/DMPRoadmap
+ http://bit.ly/activeDMP
+ https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P3XMXgicsSiN4BYP80g9bPnewXoTeuMU5eA9qU2Duy0/edit#heading=h.mti60dz2qbs7

### Notes
+ DMPs must be reused and linked, not disconnected.
+ CERN active DMP workshop
    + ensure DMPs are created, monitored, evaluated to enable data to be exploited
    + https://

+ DMPs act as a discovery tool
+ DMPs must encourage dialogue between funders, service providers and scientists. 
+ https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ulZv
+ Intend to collect concrete usecases
+ make a series of good DMPs public
+ re-use existing standards and mechanisms

+ Usecase and priority
   + interoperability
   + institutional perspective
   + repo usecases
   + evaluation and monitoring
   + leveraging PIDs

+ maDMP priority areas
   + common standards and protocol
   + leveraging PIDs
   + capacity planning - institutional and data centre
   + increasing data discovery
   + support evaluation and monotoring
   + share, publish and deposit DMPs
+ white paper - READ and COMMENT on it.

### Potential Group 1 : DMP format specification - YES
+ design a standard for expression of machine readable and actionable DMPs
+ extensible
+ address known Usecases 
+ bidirectional system must allow easy exahance of information between systems.

### GRoup2 : exposing DMPs
+ exposing DMPs

### Group 3 : domain / infrastructure specialisation - YES
+ domains and large infra have good case for simpler DMPs
+ simplicity for researcher != simplicity of expression
+ how to express domain constraints / infrastructure constraints in auto- resolvable waays?
+ lessons from rule-based resolution system in CS

#### Comments
+ EPS and BBSRC are interested in the sofware machine actionable DMP plan. Software DMP as a research output but during the research process. 
+ Technical appendix - for software management - describes the technical outputs
+ services and resources needed to fullfil the plan - capacity planning, constraints (data must be in a region, access constraints, security, etc..) - harvesting data.
+ Selective exposure of plans - available to a smaller group of people or between the funders and researchers.
+ minimal set of info that funders want
+ 5 WG were created.

----

# https://www.rd-alliance.org/ig-long-tail-research-data-rda-9th-plenary-meeting

Meeting agenda

## 1. Introducing the Long-Tail IG (Kathleen Shearer)

+ small diverse data sets
+ Bryan Heidorn, 2008 paper 'shedding light ..'

+ 50% of the data sets were sitting on the hard drive of the researchers.
+ https://www.rd-alliance.org/ig-long-tail-research-data-rda-9th-plenary-meeting
+ G7 Science Ministers, Nov 2016.
+ identify where people can put long tail data.
+ [BASE](https://www.base-search.net/) was cited as a good resource.
+ Google scholar deliberately mentioned that they dont engage in research data.

+ REcommendations: 
    1. recognizing and understanding the diversity of data and deceloping appropriate methods for managing those data
    2. Scale existing funding mechanisms to support RDM in small adn large research projects
    3. Provide support for Long-Tail-Data at the location of their origin.
    4. Expand and strengthen existing network of data libraries.
    5. Develop and Apply common global standards to maximize value of data of distributed datasets.
    6. Support reproducibility and transparency of research by linking data to literature.
    7. Implement control of technical infrastructure at the lowest possible level.
        + Must have good governance and management.
        + Paper on [Community engagement: The ‘last mile’ challenge for European research e-infrastructures](http://riojournal.com/articles.php?id=9933).
    8. Establish governance structure reflecting the diverse dimensions of research data.
+ NIST, USA is setting up a repository for lots of small data.
+ Need to distinguish data between an astronomy data set and smaller data set.

## Discussion and moving recommendations
+ Plan to follow in a wiki.


----

# [Data Champion Communities RDA 9th Plenary BoF meeting](https://www.rd-alliance.org/data-champion-communities-rda-9th-plenary-bof-meeting)

+ NOTES : https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oyClQe8Y8JsGrjlx7VTHxCy5eno38-4EubDIwan3JnU/edit#
+ http;//doi.org/10.1101/104661

+ Cambridge Data Champions
+ Virtual Learning Environment: 
    + Resources for RDM and data sharing (Question: Is it under CC (Open) licenced?). 
    + Weekly tips email - short messages.
    + bit.ly/BiteSized
+ Rewards : 
    + Writing letters to their PIs in the department.
    + invite champs to give talks
    + write blog posts and papers
+ Help with Software management 

### TU Delft library - Madeleine de Smaele
+ Overall aim is to improve RDM practice.
+ Open Science training for PhDs.
+ Functional responsibility : created a job description, dont consider Masters, only PhDs.

----

# 16:00 - 18:00, Plenary Session: Recommendations & Outputs 

## 1. Array Database Assessment WG 
+ Peter Baumann
+ BigData spin off.
+ raster, grid and datacubes
+ Structural variety of data 
    + stock trading: 
    + sets + hierarchies + graphs + arrays (multiple dimensions, upto 5, called a data cube that can be sliced and diced)
+ Array SQL : currently being extended - __no more distinction between data and metadsta__
+ Hands on evaluation of ADBMS , look at standards, functionality, technical criteria, then provide a value proposition to data scientists and programmers.
+ Datacube services - have 4 listed and have an Ex. 500 TB.
+ Work Plan : on a wiki, earth server initiative.


## 2. Research Data Collections WG
+ Tobias, Bridget
+ Data management is beyond single objects
+ need to enable actions on collections : 
    + machine agents as primary users, interact etc.. 
    + create, read, update delete, etc..
+ Component of Data Fabric - will have an API specification for tools to be built.
+ Design considerations : 
    + favor limited functionality over support for usecase details
    + offer extension points
    + no constraint on backends
    + used by machine agents
    + PIDs are supported but not mandatory
+ API-Structure: 
+ Current implementations: REPTOR, Tufts (python flask based for PERSEIDS project) and iDigBio (python and redis based).


## 3. BioSharing Registry: connecting data policies, standards & databases in life sciences WG
+ Peter McQuilton, Sussana, Rebecca.
+ Developed guidelines for linking information on databases, content standards and journal and funder data policies in the life sciences.
    + Allow data reuse 
    + DB, tools and services.
    + Data policies for funders.
+ developed a curated registry
+ Standards ensure that data is FAIR. 
+ Read the paper.

## RDA Business, Communication & Coordination 
+ Plan to expand
+ Governance issues are addressed in the grassroots.
+ how to connect workflow betwen groups.
+ Need better content for Newcomers.
+ Contributions to Newsletter are welcome - contact the sekretariat.
+ Media kit is given out at each plenary. 
+ International data week in Sept 2018.

