# [WG Data Description Registry Interoperability (DDRI)](https://www.rd-alliance.org/wg-data-description-registry-interoperability-ddri-rda-9th-plenary-meeting) RDA 9th Plenary meeting

+ Neo4J. Download the Cypher Refcard (cheatsheet) 3.1
+ GESIS has adopted the Research Graph from May17 to make connections between research data and grants of RD from portal 
   + to connect the info with funding org in DE, then connect it to get data between DE and AUS.
+ RMIT uses it to create a set of RD graphs about researhers to map expertise.

+ earlier it was CKAN java programs api but now its XMLSST.

+ Creating a distributed graph
+ JSON-LD and schema.org (JSON is smaller than XML)
    + Vocabulary mapping using graph types
    + Suggested to add a new TYPE like DOI_ID, Grant_ID, ORCID_ID, etc..
    + Question: are u using json-ld to get better rankings? No, We can give you our own random json object OR give you a json-ld which is better as you dont have to rename every property for mapping research data.   

+ Connecting the graph to 
    + the Org ID for field of research codes. ex. ANZSRC
    + research org info. Ex. GRID databse https://grid.ac

    
+ Demo of the Neo4J that fetched the ORCID_ID and researcher etc.
+ they connect the nodes but dont merge the records as it has different info.
+ finding connection between 2 different DOIs uses hte shortest path 
+ every node has labels, relationships and property values so we can query the researcher data.
    + The relationships dont support SPARQL but it can be exported to RDF and used.

----

# 11:00 - 12:30, Room MR7, [IG Repository Platforms for Research Data: experiences with research data repositories in different institutions and domains](https://www.rd-alliance.org/ig-repository-platforms-research-data-rda-9th-plenary-meeting)

### Selection of FEDORA with VITAL as a Digital Repository Platform for Preserving Scientific Data, Robert R. Downs, Columbia University

### Conquaire: enabling Git based research data quality control for institutional repositories. Vid Ayer, CITEC & Bielefeld University Library
+ QA: 
    + Would git be rolled out for the entire University?
    + Was PUB available to all the researchers? 
    + Was a DOI given to every data update?
    + Gap analysis - any challenges?

### Criteria and evaluation of research data repository platforms at the University of Pretoria, South Africa, Heila Pienaar, University of Pretoria

### Establishing a multi-instituition RD repository for TU Dresden and TU BA Freiberg, Ralph Müller-Pfefferkorn, TU Dresden
+ Open Access Repo and Archive
+ map the data and structure
+ 2-stage review project for submissions
+ Standardized interfaces (OAI-)
+ New version of D-space they have layers of code.
+ metadata handling in D-space was a problem. only plain metadata is possible.
   + Both fixed for OPara
+ DSpace does not support archiving.
+ Assetstore does not have a good layout in DSpace - files are spread out.
+ Out-of-the-box Shibboleth integration.
+ Wishlist: better integration of archiving, more focus on research data.
+ QA Comments: [DSpace](http://www.dspace.org/) has fixed the problems and integration with CKAN.

### Win win situations in Data Repository RFPs aka. Why we chose figshare. Mark Hahnel, figshare. Marietta spoke instead of Mark.
+ Scattered storage
+ Library publication not suitable for data
+ Security: not having data pass via America.


### Research Data Management at the University of Porto using Dendro, CKAN and EUDAT. Cristina Ribeiro, INESC TEC- University of Porto.
+ Long tail RDM
+ Dendro platform for data organisation, generic ontologies for each domain.
+ LabTablet: e-labnotebook 
+ integrated lab-tablet with Dendro so researchers can upload hte field data easily.
+ Standard ontologies 
+ EUDAT collaboration - B2share and B2find models.


### Distributed Archive System for the Cherenkov Telescope Array. Eva Sciacca, INAF Astrophysical Observatory of Catania. Steffano gave the talk.
+ CTA - high energy gamma-ray astronomy.
+ Data Model : has different types of data. 
+ Large volume of data - 100 PB of data per year.
+ [Indigo Datacloud](https://www.indigo-datacloud.eu/)

### [Hydra](https://projecthydra.org/) and RDM in Europe. Richard Jones, Cottage Labs
+ Fedora is a key component of Hydra.
+ GAP analysis: 
        + How to better enable deposit and access to ölarge and complex datasets
        + versioning datasets for citation
        + interactive data viz
        + community docs
        + integration of automated sources of data, such as from workfloews or from cloud storage providers
        + how to model data objects.
+ Jisc RDSS framework : Cottage labs, Figshare, Haplo, Islandora.
+ Willow is the offering from Cottagelabs : Sufia (for IR functionalty, geobacklight for GIS datasets, and IIIF tile vieweer)

