# Grey Literature - Nirbhaya Act

+ [1. Abstract](#abstract)
+ [2. Project Scope](#2-project-scope)
   + [2a. Implementation](#2a-implementation)
        + [Storage](#storage)
   + [2b. Challenges](#2b-challenges)

----

# 1. Abstract

Some years ago I had written a blog post about a [HotKey button](http://svaksha.com/post/2009/Cell-help) application that would ping your designated contact list when you are in danger and help track down your location. However, I soon realised that this idea was ahead of its time because without the support infrastructure from the police, lack of social awareness and sensitivity among Indians, lack of prompt medical aid, etc.. this would not work. The lack of ground level support to give women backing when she needs help was crucial, else the HotKey application would only result in getting her family and friends worried and upset about her safety. Besides, smartphones were not a popular trend as they are today (in 2015) thanks to cheaper cellphones by different manufacturers. 

After the violent Nirbhaya attack in 2012, the Indian government introduced the [Gazette notification ammendment dated 03-Feb-2013](http://lawmin.nic.in/ld/ord_criminal_law.pdf), now popularly known as the Nirbhaya Act. The [Press Information Bureau](http://pib.nic.in/newsite/erelease.aspx?relid=91979) also has a release of the entire gazette notification. Although there is more awareness about womens safety, [more women speaking up and coming forward to register cases](http://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/407-cases-registered-under-nirbhaya-act-in-krishna/article6730238.ece) while the police claims to be responsive, etc.. However, women are still not safe and we hear many assault incidents in the media - the highly violent cases that get media attention are registered promptly, but what about the other low-profile ones? Does the police treat these cases with the same sensitivity and do they actually register cases under the Nirbhaya Act when the women approach them? Every assault case does not have to be horrifically violent resulting in her death for the police to take action and unless the police treats "stalking", "eve-teasing" and other acts of aggression against women with the same seriousness that they do in sexual assault cases, there will not be a change in the mindset that there are no consequences for stalking or assaulting women in India.

---- 

# 2. Project Scope

The project aim is to use Twitter to track people using the hashtag `#NirbhayaAct`, `#Nirbhaya` and statistically track if their case was registered or not by the police. Initially, in the pilot stage limit the tracking to Bangalore city where the police is very tech savvy and has a team that handles the IT aspect of their online presence.

## 2a. Implementation

+ Python 
+ Julia
+ HDF5 - array based storage
+ NLP
+ Heroku
+ Twitter API
+ Scrapy

### Storage

+ Array based storage using HDF5 and JLD
   * To use HDF5 (with JLD, which has been split recently), use Pkg.add("JLD") and in future, to use it say "using JLD" rather than "using HDF5, JLD."


## 2b. Challenges

+ How to ensure Tweeters Privacy and Victims privacy? 
+ How to get police support and buy-in for the above?


